 Hopefully that layman has a long attention span, because this is complicated. The conflict has its roots in the SykesPicot Agreement of 1916, in which the British and French agreed upon separate 'spheres of influence' in the middle East. Over the next decades, various states and governments were declared in the area, mostly with little or no regard to the existing power structures.But then let us fast-forward to just a few years ago... Bashar al Assad, the President or Syria, was like his father before him, an authoritarian ruler.In nearby countries, people protested their authoritarian rulers in a series of demonstrations that came to be known as the "Arab Spring." Arab spring: an interactive timeline of Middle East protestsIn Syria, those demonstrations were met with violence from Assad's government.Middle East unrest: Three killed at protest in Syria - BBC NewsAssad's attempt to squash the demonstrations backfired, and they escalated into rebellion.Syrian President Bashar al-Assad: Facing down rebellion - BBC NewsRebellion escalated into widespread violence, best described as civil war.Syrian Civil War News, Photos and Videos - ABC NewsBut it's not just a matter of citizens-versus-government. There are multiple groups seeking to replace Assad's government:There is the group now calling itself the Islamic State, formerly known as the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) or the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), or Daesh, depending on who you ask... What is 'Islamic State'? - BBC NewsThere are the Kurds, an ethnic group that spans parts of Syria, Iraq, and Turkey, without a state of their own... Ascendant Kurds emerge from Syrian civil war as major power playerThere is the Free Syrian Army, an alliance of "moderate" (i.e. not Jihadist/Islamist/pro-Sharia/murderous) fighters, largely compose of / founded by defectors from Assad's army. This group has some support from western countries... Free Syrian Army News, Photos and Videos - ABC News And there is also a long list of loosely affiliated Islamic Jihadist groups... Guide to the Syrian rebels - BBC News The various rebel groups pushed Assad's government back into a relatively small portion of Syria, it now controls very little beyond the capital city of Damascus... Islamic State And Jaish al-Islam Close In On Damascus; Assad's Regime In DangerBut Assad has recently been receiving significant support from Iran and Russia... Iran Expands Role in Syria in Conjunction With Russias AirstrikesPerhaps I should have mentioned earlier that it is widely believed that Assad has long supported the Islamic State in subtle ways, in an effort to position his own (widely despised) regime as the only viable opposition to the (even more widely despised) Islamic State... Why Assad may be helping Islamic States offensive - Al-Monitor: the Pulse of the Middle East Amidst all of this chaos and violence, literally millions of Syrians have fled to Europe seeking refuge from war. This has become a crisis in its own right... The Syrian refugee crisis, explained in one mapAnd many wonder why nearby countries that, like Syria, are predominantly Muslim and Arabic, have virtually closed their doors to Syrian refugees - steering them instead to countries in which the Arab language and Muslim faith are shared only by small minorities.Why Arent Gulf Countries Taking in Syrian Refugees? And if that sounds complicated, bear in mind that I am only an English-speaking agnostic on the opposite side of the planet. I've probably omitted at least as much complexity as I have covered. For example, Assad's use of chemical weapons against civilians in rebel-held neighborhoods... Page on newsweek.com