 No, it isn't. The best figures we have (discarding the NRA's wildly inflated numbers) indicate that defensive gun use outnumbers criminal gun use by roughly two to one. And by "we" I mean the Institute of Medicine, which was directed by President Obama to study firearm violence in the wake of the Sandy Hook murders.But defensive gun use barely makes the weekly police blotter, whereas mass shootings are inevitably followed by a week-long media extravaganza in which the perpetrator becomes a house-hold name. This has given many people a very distorted view of firearm use.One could argue just as convincingly that our culture's insistence on making mass murderers into celebrities is a mental illness. There is evidence that mass murder is contagious - mentally unstable people are inspired to kill by the fame that our culture has unfailingly bestowed upon the mass murderers who came before them.Firearm violence, like most forms of violence, has dropped almost by half in the last 20 years. One form of violence that has not declined is the form that guarantees its perpetrators celebrity status and national name recognition.Yet despite the decades-long drop in firearm violence, and the more-frequent use of firearms for self-defense, many people believe that gun violence is an increasing problem, and that guns are have no purpose other than murder. What's worse, the facts simply don't matter to those people. From the article:I know Im being a bit demeaning, but, damn it, I simply cant understand. And, frankly, I dont want to.This country does have problems with violence, firearms, and firearm violence. But continued willful ignorance will not bring us closer to solving those problems.See also: Gun Homicide Rate Down 49% Since 1993 Peak; Public Unaware (Would you believe it if I didn't have a credible source?)See also: Nate Waddoups' answer to Should guns be legal? (For more background about the defensive use statistic, including a link to the report that the president commissioned.)See also: Nate Waddoups' answer to Why are gun advocates against increased background checks? (I'm pretty sure the reason is not what you think - and it stems from attitudes like the ones demonstrated in the 'gun culture is mentally ill' article.)