 It is not clear yet whether 3D printing will be a good career for anyone, anywhere, other than for those who hold patents on very significant printer technologies.Hardware: There are many companies competing to make fused-deposition-modeling printers, and all of that competition is keeping profit margins small. It is almost a commodity business.There are still some patents covering key aspects of powder-based printing, so the people/companies that hold those patents can charge a premium. However I'm told that the first wave of those patents are going to expire soon, after which we can expect a surge in competition in that area as well - with an accompanying drop in prices (good for consumers) and profit margins (not good for producers).So if you want to go into hardware your only chance of earning big money would be to come up with patents that advance the state-of-the-art. Otherwise it will be difficult to charge much more that your operating costs. Transformative innovation is difficult - the rewards for success are great, but this is essentially a research endeavour where lots of things must be tried just in hopes of finding something that really changes the game.Software: There are also a ton of options for modeling software, which drives down margins here too. Many players in this area are offering their software at very low cost or even free, in the hopes that users will upgrade to paid versions for specific features. As a hobbyist who could never afford high-end modeling software, the drop in prices over the last few years has been delightful - I never thought I'd own parametric modeling software like PTC Creo, Cubify Design, Autodesk Fusion 360... and the free/open-source projects have grown very powerful, for example Blender and OpenScad.So if you want to go into software you'd best have an exceptional passion for the field because it will be a challenge to stand out from the crowd.Modeling: Now that powerful hardware and software is readily available at low cost, 3D modeling is becoming a field that anyone can get involved in. Which, again, makes it a commodity business. Like photography, modeling is something that a lot of people will do for fun and a barely-sustainable amount of money. Like photography, people who are exceptionally good at it will probably always be able to make a living doing exceptionally high-quality work very quickly, but like photography there will be hordes of people eager to compete on price, making it hard to make a good living.So if you want to make a living making models, you'd best have an exceptional passion for it, else you won't stand out from all of the other folks who are doing the same thing.Marketplaces: Thingiverse has a great place to advertise a share models. They have quite a network built of modelers and consumers. There are plentry of upstarts who want a chunk of that business but I suspect that this is a market that will only have a very small number of successes (thing ebay, facebook, craigslist) so most of the upstarts are probably doomed.Fabrication: Everybody who buys a 3D printer has an investment that sits idle for much of the time... So many printer owners are motivated to put their printers to use, making parts for people who don't have printers. Again there is little opportunity for anyone to charge a premium, because there are so many people offering the same set of services.So if you want to make a living printing models, you'd best have an exceptional passion for it, else you won't stand out from all of the other folks who are doing the same thing.--What other options exist for careers in 3D printing? I don't know.It's a fun hobby, so don't hesitate to get involved. But I expect to see few people make a good deal of money from any aspect of it. The great thing about the explosion in 3D printing is that anyone can get involved in any aspect of production.... But, this isn't so great for producers, because anyone can get involved in any aspect of production.