 Necessity. There are multiple limitations that force us to put the ISS where it is. The ISS was assembled in large by the Space Shuttle. The Space Shuttle Orbiter had to deliver each of the modules on the U.S. Segment. Those were big payloads. For example, the U.S. Lab is 14,515 kilograms (32,000 lb). It just isn't possible for the Orbiter to deliver such payloads to an orbit much higher than where the ISS is located. The highest the Space Shuttle Orbiter ever flew was on a Hubble servicing mission. During that flight it reached 620 km (385 miles). It carried very little payload to get there.The Soyuz is our lifeboat and the Progress is a primary cargo vessel. Those vehicles are certified to fly to an altitude of 460 km (285 miles). Lift the ISS to a higher altitude and we lose our lifeboat and cargo.Above 500 km (310 miles), the radiation levels increase to dangerous levels, particularly over the South Atlantic, making it hazardous for both crew and equipment.Money. Every kilometer increase in altitude means increased costs to get there. We just don't have the money. The ISS is an expensive project. Space exploration is not well supported by the public and thus not well supported by politicians that approve the funding. Every space project you read about is less than it could be. Much of design is not figuring out what can be, it is figuring out what can be removed to meet the budgetary requirements. Almost every question on Quora that asks why we don't do [X] in space can first be answered by saying we don't have the money.All that said, there also just simply isn't a need to be higher. The mission requirements can all be satisfactorily met between 400-460 km (248-285 miles). The purpose of the ISS is to provide a laboratory in which we can study things in microgravity and the space environment. The biological changes in the crew, the crystals growing in the lab, the plasma experiments - all the things we need to do to meet our objectives can be done in LEO (low Earth orbit).