 I don't believe he is negative about the films. To the contrary, he has been quite positive. He has repeatedly praised Sam Mendes work as director on Spectre and Skyfall. He has repeatedly said how grateful he is for the quality of the script in Casino Royale that allowed him to be Bond, rather than just impersonate past Bonds.Any negative remarks he has made have been about the exhausting process of making the films. They are massive films that put a lot of pressure on the star. They are physically demanding films that strain the body - work on Spectre had to cease for a few weeks while he had knee surgery after an on-set injury. They are films that require a lot of travel, keeping him away from his family. He's just exhausted and wants a break.There are two things that have to be understood to understand the context of his remarks:1) Craig is English. Sarcasm is as essential as breathing, for him. One has to understand sarcasm to understand his remarks.2) He doesn't enjoy spending hour after hour with stupid journalist after stupid journalist. These big movies require press events where the actors sit in a hotel suite while journalist after journalist is put in front of them and given a few minutes to ask the same idiotic questions the last forty stupid journalists asked. Going through an experience like that makes one lose track of how many different people are asking the questions. It starts to feel like the same person is asking the same question. Imagine that instead of talking about the current film, you were getting asked over and over if you want to make another one. Wouldn't you eventually try to make it stop by using hyperbole and saying something like "I'd rather cut my wrists with this bottle!" I sure as hell would. Look at this clip. Wouldn't you want to throw this journalist through a window?https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=sj...The same thing happens here on Quora - on a much smaller scale - We get asked the same questions over and over and over. That sometimes results in using a little sarcasm and hyperbole, hoping it will stop the nonsense.