 If the horizontal velocity of an orbiting object is somehow negated, that object will fall straight downwards towards the Earth.The speed of an object, in orbit, is directly tied to its altitude. We could make the ISS faster or slower by firing its thrusters, but doing so would not just change the horizontal velocity, it would change the altitude. Making it faster would increase the altitude and making it slower would decrease the altitude.For further explanation, keep reading.Every object in the solar system is in some form of orbit, whether about the Sun or a planet. Orbits are the only thing that prevents everything from falling into the Sun's gravity well and being vaporized.What does it mean to orbit?To orbit a planet essentially means to be above the planet and to be moving forward at about the same rate youre falling towards the Earth. This creates the phenomenon of constantly falling towards the Earth, but never hitting it.Sir Isaac Newton used the idea of a cannon to illustrate this. Fired at a slow speed the cannon ball quickly fell to Earth. Fired at a faster speed it went farther. Each path could be drawn as a curve. Since the Earth is round and curves down, in front of us - there must, he reasoned, be a forward velocity that, when combined with gravity, would produce a curve that matched the curvature of the Earth and would, thus, never fall to the ground.Okay, what about the orbit of the ISS?For the ISS, at an altitude of about 250 miles (400 km), that forward velocity is about 17,500 mph (7.8 km/s).For a circular orbit, the equation to figure out what the appropriate velocity would be, is:Where G is the gravitational constant. M is the mass of the body being orbited (Earth). R is the distance from the center of the Earth to the object in orbit.How did we get that?Force of gravity equals the centripetal force.So,So, the object is falling towards the Earth, but just keeps missing the Earth. This is the real reason astronauts float inside the International Space Station (ISS) - they, and the vehicle are in free-fall. It isn't because there is "zero gravity" in space, as is often said. In fact, while the acceleration of gravity on the Earth surface is about 9.81 m/s, at the altitude of the ISS the acceleration of gravity has only dropped to about 8.75 m/s.Gravity pulls the object towards the center of the planet and also provides the acceleration that forces the object to travel in a circular path. The result being, that an object with a certain velocity will achieve stability when it is at a distance from the center of the planet where the equations balance.If we stop an object like the ISS, dead in its tracks, it will have no choice but to fall down towards the center of the Earth.