 The idea of a new Star Trek television series excites me. Star Trek belongs on television not in the cinema.BUT... I am concerned that the series will be produced by Alex Kurtzman, one of the producers and writers of the Abrams Star Trek films. I did enjoy the first of those films, but the second one is beyond embarrassing. Star Trek Into Darkness is not the product of people that understand Star Trek. It is not the product of people that understand story-telling.Kurtzman's television productions are a mixed bag. On the bright side, he is one of the people that gave us Fringe. But, on the other side, he is one of the people that brought us Scorpion.As a writer, he has written terrible scripts for Transformers and Amazing Spider-Man 2. Hopefully he will stay out of the writer's room.This new Star Trek television series will be the flagship of CBS All Access, the digital streaming service of CBS. To watch the series, people will have to subscribe to that service for around $6 a month. That means it won't merely be a product that CBS hopes will bring them profits, it will be something that can greatly affect their larger corporate plans. That means they will probably feel compelled to be involved in the show in an editorial way. That didn't work out to well last time. I would much rather a company like Netflix was producing the series. Netflix appears to be much more comfortable allowing creative people to tell their stories the way they want to tell them.I'm very curious to know what the concept will be. It won't be Captain Kirk and Mr. Spock. Will it be the Enterprise? Will it be a starship on a five year mission? Will it be set in interstellar space or will it be set on a planet or starbase?The series I would like to see would go back to Gene Roddenberry's initial inspiration. Gene Roddenberry saw Captain Kirk as a futuristic Horatio Hornblower. The Hornblower novels, by C.S. Forester, follow Horatio throughout his career - from midshipman to Admiral of the Fleet. I would like to see a series that followed a character throughout their Starfleet career, starting with their first assignment and leading to their first command. The perspective of the audience would change as that character climbed the ladder. We'd see adventures from below decks during the first season, rarely seeing the bridge or the captain, similar to the excellent Star Next: The Next Generation season 7 episode "Lower Decks".What I most don't want to see is dark rooms. If you have the energy to power a warp drive and a transporter, you have energy to turn the damn lights on. I want a show that is bright figuratively and literally.Star Trek is incredibly important to me. It is a fictional world that I crave to visit. It has influenced every facet of my life. I so much want more of it, but I don't want it to be soiled.