 There are two things to talk about, here: continuity and creative teams.ContinuityContinuity is a mixed blessing. It is essential to world-building and creating the serial aspect of comics that keeps the industry alive. The industry depends on those fans that purchase multiple titles every month because they don't want to miss out on a stitch of the tapestry. But, it is also a stifling burden, that constricts creators more and more each year. Superman and Batman have appeared in comic books every month for the last 75 years. Many of the Marvel characters are entering their fifth decade of publication. During that time, these characters have been kept in a recycling status quo. Both Marvel and DC utilize floating timelines that maintain that all of the stories have occurred in the last 10 years. These characters are worth more as licensing properties than as comic book characters. That means that they can't really change.Imagine you are a comic book writer. Your job is to write interesting stories that will captivate audiences and sell books. You are restricted in how much you can change about the characters. You also have to deal with the massive history of the characters. How do you write a Batman versus Joker story that is in continuity with every other Batman versus Joker story told in the last 75 years? That's hundreds of stories. How do you even maintain the plausibility that Batman would return the Joker to Arkham over and over and over again, knowing the Joker will escape and kill innocents?"Continuity holds the best writer hostage of the worst." - Marv Wolfman (writer of Crisis on Infinite Earths)"Continuity is the devil. Continuity is the devil! Its awful. It makes for bad stories, right? Because suddenly, well, wait a second, you said Wolverine hates ham sandwiches, hes clearly eating a ham sandwich! Thats trivia.  But consistencys important. Like with what Dan said, its about truth to character. The rest is ultimately trivia, and time isnt really time in comics, you know?" - Matt Fraction (writer of Hawkeye)The nice thing about coming in to write the New 52 is I dont have to worry about what came before the New 52. That stuff is great and it can serve as inspiration, but continuity is the devil. As a writer, having to slavishly make sense of too much continuity can kill a story. Yes, you want to stay true to the spirit of things, and continuity can absolutely be your friend in creating resonance and a sense of history and paying off certain emotional things  but: It was a beautiful, beautiful thing for me walking into the New 52 and being able to look at a small range of stories that had been told, and those are the things that are set in stone, and the rest of it we can make up as we go. We can build the stories that make sense for our characters in order to tell the emotional story that were telling. - Greg Pak (writer of World War Hulk)It is the editor's job to govern continuity. They have to balance ensuring the story fits into the ongoing universe of the comics with allowing creators to tell their best stories. Judgement calls have to be made. Not everything in the last 75 years was good. Mistakes were made, bad stories were written. Is it okay for a writer in 2015 to contradict a bad and forgotten story from 1973? Or must every writer in perpetuity be constrained by the choices of that long ago writer? Creative TeamsThe crux of your question is about having multiple writers work on characters. Believe it or not, it is often more desirable to a publisher to have a creator on a title for a short period than a long period. Ultimately, comics is a business. It is their job to try to sell more books this month than last month. One thing that is almost guaranteed to cause an increase in sales is a change in creative team. Put "New Creative Team!" On the cover in giant font and people that didn't buy the book last month will buy it this month. Readers often say it is difficult to know when to jump into a book. Readers also become complacent and bored. That's why publishers like to remember so often. Putting an "Issue #1" or "First Issue" on the cover tells people - "start here!"There are, of course, exceptions. There are star writers whose names sell books. Marvel will let Brian M. Bendis stay on a book as long as he wants to, just as DC will for Geoff Johns.Often, the change is not a choice of the publisher. Writers come onto a book with a plan for the story or stories they want to tell. When that is done, they want to move on. They want to do other things. They may only have one six issue story about Spider-man to tell. Then they want to tell their six-issue story about Batman.And finally, characters like Spider-man, Batman, Superman, and Wolverine can support multiple titles a month. So, in a given month, by necessity, one writer will be using Batman in Batman and another will be using him in Detective Comics, and a third in Justice League.