 Don't live your life in fear of sunk costs.Don't be afraid of wasted time or stepping off a ladder you don't want to be climbing.Many people hurry to figure out who they are, and who they aren't. This reaches a frenzy around your age. People talk definitively. People at the end of their 20s talk the most definitively and thus it feels everyone has it figured out and you have to too. You stop wherever you are and announce to the world;THIS IS WHO I AM AND THIS IS WHAT I'M GOING TO DO!!!Done. And that is that. Except, that isn't that. If you think this way at 28, you will spend your 30s reinforcing what you've decided at 28 rather than reevaluating your more mature self and its needs.At 31 you'll feel a nagging doubt but you shrug it off because it's a tickle and YOU have it figured out. You made a plan at 28. You take comfort in that.At 35 the tickle starts to be a scratch, and the doubt gets bigger but you still shrug it off because well, you've come so far, it's all about sunk costs. But you might start drinking.At 40 the scratch becomes a full-on rash and you are suffering, what you have is not what you want and you realize your life at 40 has been taken hostage by what your 28 year old self thought was the answer because you were afraid of not having an answer. At 45, that is when the crisis hits. Emotional shingles. All over body-pain that is overwhelming and you realize you're stuck. You implode. You have an affair or two, a face-lift, new car, maybe an ulcer, lots of whiskey and you start sabotaging your life because you just want out. Or you keep your head down and keep going because the people who depend on you are more important than your happiness.Either way, you're not happy.You don't know at 28 what your 31, 35, 40, 45 self wants. Plan for long-term and make investments by, all means. But also check, recheck and don't be afraid to start over and step off ladders (or bubbles), even if it means wasted time - if it will make you happy.It's your life and you only get one chance. Sunk costs have zero value.(To be fair, I gave myself slightly more direct advice: If you could time travel and meet your 28-year-old self, what would you say?)