 While I appreciate your honesty, I think you're being too harsh on yourself. It's probably causing you unnecessary anxiety and preventing you from seeing the issue for what it is. It might be that you just don't like content females often write about. I don't like crafts. Many females blog about crafts. I don't follow them. I don't follow the blogs about crafts written by men.It might be that there are just not females writing about the things you care about. I love movies. Every single person on Quora I follow who writes about movies is a male. Are there females writing, sure. But I haven't tried to find them. Maybe I should . . that doesn't make me sexist, just lazy.Words like "abuse, bullying, sexist, victim" have been overused by every last celeb-hopeful trying to get headlines. The power of these words has diminished and that affects the people who really need to use them. Sexist would be if you don't follow, read or like someone JUST BECAUSE a female authored it. Regardless of topic, writing, viewpoint, content - if it were written by a male, you'd like it. But not by a female.I don't know whether you are sexist. But let's put that aside and not try to solve it now, ok? The simple thing to do is to read more female writers. Start here:What women do you recommend following on Quora?It's ok to do this, you're not giving them special treatment because they are female, you're holding them to the same standard, you're just forcing yourself to read - not like - their work.It's ok to not like something a female writes. It's ok to not agree with something a female writes. It's ok to like something specific written by a male rather than a female.It's ok to have interests and hobbies that are dominated by male POVs (although, like me with movies, you might want to check on this).It is NOT ok to not read females or not like their writing JUST BECAUSE they are female. If you find yourself having this problem, then you have an issue and we can talk about that in another question.