 etc. Long scenery descriptions in first person are weird, because most individuals don't survey scenery to the extent a 3rd person narrator would.- Allows for richer characters due to multiple points of view, reactions, thoughts and motivations.- Similarly, can add tension because reader can more clearly see the emotions of fear and anger - as well as situation irony that lead to tension. - Often it is easier for authors to write because not every line has to be in the main character's syntax and vernacular. - There are many subtle variations on this POV style; you might be in the heads of 1 person and make them the de facto narrator (like 1st person POV but slightly removed), or perhaps 5 people - each one drawn out and complex.- Careful not to go into too many heads at once. Knowing what each and every person is thinking actually creates emotional distanceExamples of books that use 3rd person narration well- The Children Act, Ian McEwan's latest is in limited (and unreliable) 3rd person, the Judge, but only her thoughts and feelings are known and everyone else is seen by her. Fitting for her character as she struggles to comprehend the emotions and needs of others.- J.M. Coetzee's Disgrace is similarly inside the head of 1 character. The 3rd person allows for atmospheric descriptions and pacing and tone that wouldn't have worked in 1st person. At the same time, we're so intimate with the protagonist's thoughts that it achieves the best effects of 1st person narration. 3. 3rd PERSON OMNISCIENT NARRATIONWhat is it?Omniscient narration is a 3rd person narrative but without a primary character. Instead, the narration knows the thoughts and feelings of MOST OR ALL the characters.Example: John felt sad. Susie looked at him, confused if he was sad or mad. Jane felt cold when she saw John's face. Here, we know what everything is thinking, and it's a bit much.Considerations for using this narrative perspective- Can cause whiplash if too many heads are explored at once; create a break between what character x thinks and character y. - Is there a protagonist - at least one someone the reader can identify or care about?- Needs consistency, Character x's thoughts can't be open to us in one part and opaque in another. - This is very hard to achieve consistently throughout the entire book. Most authors break up perspectives by chapter rather than having them all in one scene. So while each chapter is a 3rd person intimate, the entire book has the effect of 3rd person omniscient.Examples of books that use Omniscient narration well- Cormac McCarthy's The Road - This narration briefly jumps into the head of the boy and the man. Because it doesn't jump very deep into either, it works and the reader is emotionally bonded to both of them (critical in a book where everything else is so alienating.) He also employs a lot of dialog, showing what the characters feel rather than telling. 1st person would have been much too immediate, too personal and frankly, too warm for the tone of this book.Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice, of course, does this well. Austen allows us to know the thoughts of Elizabeth, Mr. Bennett and a few others. Like McCarthy, Austen hangs back on rambling, penetrating emotional synopsis, however, and presents the characters mainly in dialog - it feels like we are more closely to Eliza than we really are yet we still understand thoughts of most of the characters.4. OTHER NARRATION OPTIONS2nd person - rarely used, is when a character is talking to about himself. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Se...Omniscient (removed) - Ok, I made this up. But I take it to mean when a narrator is removed from everyone's head, the reader only knows what people think through actions. So there is no narrator (save Shakespeare's Chorus), and you might as well write a drama/play.This answer was how I think about POV in fiction writing, here are some other views (hehe):- Self-Editing for Fiction Writers, a great book written by editors, not authors. Chapter 3 lays out the different options with examples.-Writers Toolbox - How to understand perspective vs. POV and examples of each from an actual writer. 5 Quick Tips for Writing in Multiple Perspectives | WritersDigest.com Writers Digest is usually a good site, this article is about how to write well in multiple perspectives.