 You're both right. A profession is a signal to the outside world about your personality, intelligence and skills. Certain professions, like doctor, carry a more positive signal than others (but depends on specifics).(1) People will open doors for you because of a profession. Sure. They might trust your opinions, your judgement. They will see your title or job and think "This person will be smart, giving, kind, mature . . . " any number of things.Signal: I'm a doctorInterpretation: He's a doctor, he must be smart, hard-working, and care about helping others.Why do they think that, just because you're a doctor? No. Because of what it takes TO BECOME a doctor. It's rigorous! Only the brightest and best do it!But you have to live up to the interpretation that your profession is making. I.E. they will also hold you to a standard based on what THEY think you should know and be like and if you fail to meet their criteria, you will fall from their grace just as much as you would anyone's.Signal: I'm a doctorInterpretation: He's a doctor, he must be smart, hard-working, and care about helping others.Test: Doctor is at restaurant, someone is choking, Doctor doesn't know how to administer the Heimlich Maneuver or just decides he doesn't want to, everyone in restaurant and soon entire town hate said Doctor.In this case, the Doctor FAILED to meet expectations, and now no one gives two shits he's a doctor.Your brother can become a Doctor, but that alone won't get him lasting respect. He has to actually BE the kind of things that being a "Doctor" signal to the rest of the world. That is why becoming a doctor is such hard work.(1) Example of a profession having different signals different places, in U.S., an "lawyer" is someone who has gone to an accredited Law School and passed the BAR to practice law. It is rigorous, full of exams and tests and not everyone makes it. In Mexico, "licenciado" is a term that can be used to mean lawyer. It can ALSO mean anyone who has a degree. When I see someone from a Spanish-speaking country with "LIC" on their business card, I don't think it means attorney nor that they necessarily passed rigorous schooling and exam to become one.