 An accent is one way to show authenticity of a character, it isn't and shouldn't be the only way. (To understand how to use accents check out: Dan Smith's answer to How do authors differentiate accents of different characters in a novel?)Don't write in accent because you find writing in Cockney English interesting and/or fun - your readers will hate you..If you want to make a character authentic, there are a few ways to do it;If you are writing about an outsider, personal journey or alienation theme, it makes sense to use full- on accents. I.e., Character 1 comes to another place and meets Character 2 with whom he doesn't have much in common, you might want to make Character 2 have an accent to reinforce the differences. My favorite - James Herriot's books, All Creatures Great and Small, where he includes the Yorkshire accent to show the difficulty he had understanding them, how different he felt as an outsider. He continued to write the accents in his books and they became almost loving.Another example, of course, is Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (1884) where both Jim and Huck have an accent as a way of showing their race, class and education differences (and similarities).Otherwise, you can mention how the accent/pronunciation sounds to your protagonist without actually writing it out; - He pronounced his words like he had chewed them around- Her staccato pace and clipped words made him think of an automated cheese slicer.- He spoke in long vowels and drawn-out syllables, like he didn't want to cede the floor and needed to bide his time.Describe them thus, but write out their dialog in a traditional manner, occasionally using vernacular like Ga'awww or y'all or you'uns when appropriate. You can also develop rich character voices that will say as much about your character as an accent would; i.e. grammar, syntax, pacing, style that would suit them.  - Do they Eh and Um- Do they have excellent/poor grammar? - Do they interrupt themselves? - Would they say Don't be late, Be here on time, or Please, be punctual? What about colloquialisms? Alice Munro writes about the The Midwest and her characters speak exactly like the people I grew up around (phrases like Oh, dear, starting sentences with Why). She doesn't write their elongated o's and a's but I can hear them.Another great example is Kazuo Ishiguro's Remains of the day narrated in the formal tone of a Butler.I told the man I would have to be on my way and thanked him emphatically for his assistance.In this case, the tone and vernacular is absolutely necessary because it shows the repressed emotions central to the theme. Show the character doing, saying, wearing, thinking things that are part of their culture and heritage.Barbara Kingsolver always handles ethnicity and culture with respect. "Uncle Ledger would say, once you've ridden a horse, you should know what a horse is." from Pigs in Heaven Uncle Ledger is Native American and from the central plains of the U.S., Kingsolver doesn't mention an accent, but the way he speaks of a culture that knows and understands horses - as many people including Native Americans living in the Plains do - you can more easily hear a voice that might belong to him.Be careful not to make characters cliche. A Native American who only talks about animals and spirits is a cliche (not to mention racist). One that mentions such a phrase as above, and then goes on to be a fully-developed character in his own right, is not.