 There are a few reasons this could be offensive. Or at least make someone bristle at it and perhaps, question your intentions.First, your use of the word "Mexican." Mexican isn't a race, it is a nationality and ethnicity. It wouldn't be appropriate to say someone "looks Mexican" unless you are in place that is predominantly Mexican people (Like El Paso). Latino, Latin, Hispanic are more appropriate terms to describe a generic individual from Latin America (because many immigrants of descendants of immigrants in the U.S. are from countries other than Mexico). Referring all Latin descendants as "Mexicans" is ignorant. Like referring to all Asian immigrants as Chinese.Second, without more context, what you say could be derogatory. It's not derogatory to call someone Mexican, just like it isn't to call someone Jewish.But to describe looks? What do you mean by that? How does someone listening know that you mean nothing by it? Especially if they are a Latino who HAS heard derogatory statements made about them based on their skin color, height, hair - all sorts of things. Political correctness, though clunky and annoying - is supposed to make our speech more neutral so we can avoid such misinterpretations when our intentions aren't clear. I'm not saying this is perfect, but it might have been better if your statement was more neutral "I could see someone mistaking you for a Latino" Rather than "You look Mexican." Does that feel right?I am not politically correct, not by a long- shot. To make up for that, I make my intentions clear, and leave room for doubt and discussion. Example: I visited a good friend of mine Vishwanath Ram in Texas. Vishy is Indian, he has tan skin, thick dark hair and he lives in a community where there are a lot of Mexican immigrants and citizens.I asked him if he was ever mistaken as Chicano (what local Mexican's call themselves) by locals and I didn't mean to offend him, I was just curious. This might be offensive to someone, but it wasn't to Vishy. (And if it was I hope he says in the comments).You asking this here, without prejudice, shows just the kind of openness I'm talking about. Very cool.I also follow the rule that the people who raise the most stink about what is offensive to someone else (on things that really aren't that offensive) but can't tell you why it's offensive do so to hide the fact that they have no idea what they are talking about and have never actually interacted with someone of the supposed offended party in their life. These people suck. Ignore them.