 You measure yourself as an inverse function of others' happiness. We all do, I get dry sweats and night terrors every time my alumni magazine comes around. These people outshined me in college, they outshine me in life. Bah.But this isn't the right way to look at it. I'm going to use algebra to illustrate.This is how you see your situation:YOU + Hy < YOUR PEERS + Hp [where Hy is your happiness quotient, Hp is that of your peers.]To switch this equation to =/>, you can change 4 inputs;1. Increase YOU: 2. Increase YOUR HAPPINESS (Hy)3. Decrease YOUR PEERS4. Decrease YOUR PEERS' HAPPINESS (Hp)I know, confusing. Let's take them one by one to see what the hell I'm talking about;1. Increase YOU What does this mean? It means, change the fundamental things that you value about yourself. Right now you list money, travel, good memories.But what if you changed what you value? What if you put your self-worth and life-worth into things that weren't so material or "Facebookable" to things that actually matter in the long-run?How do you treat other people?Are you kind to animals?Are you intelligent and curious?Have you meant something special to another other person?Have you used your talents to advance knowledge?Are you kind and compassionate?This is hard to change, yes. But it is sustainable. You WILL realize someday that Facebook posts don't matter. Why wait? 2. Increase YOUR HAPPINESSWhat does this mean? Let's say your value system is money, travel, good memories - Double down! Do things to make money - only. Travel even if you have to be dangerous. Only be friends with people who can help you make memories. Re-prioritizing your life isn't hard if you focus and commit. If you think this is the key to you being happy, do it! 3. Decrease YOUR PEERSWhat does this mean? Simply, it means, get new friends. Ones that aren't as impressive. When you aren't confronted with their amazingness, you won't feel bad about yourself.Although this would be easy to do cosmetically - defriend - it is disruptive, does it really solve your issues long-term? Impressive people have a way of always being around. I have alumni mags to prove it.4. Decrease YOUR PEERS' HAPPINESSWhat does this mean? Get it in your head PEOPLE AREN'T AS HAPPY AS THEY LOOK ON FACEBOOK. Really. They aren't. I ALWAYS post the best photos of myself having the BEST time, and doing the MOST amazing things. Isn't that what Facebook is for?People's lives are much more nuanced than you think, and their problems much larger. See their happiness differently. So those are your options.From my experience a few sound good, but don't work. Ditching your happy friends, is that really what you want? Good luck with that, Scrooge.Just BEING more exceptional, yes - sure, that helps. But, haven't you tried this? Haven't we all? And are you willing to make the sacrifices it takes?And #4, So cliche. Everyone says "Remember, no one is as happy as they appear!!" Easy to remember, difficult to accept in the moment. It's like telling someone with mouth cancer 'Just remember to not have mouth cancer. Smile!' - OR - You can change your values. Stop prioritizing money, travel, memories etc. Measure yourself on who you are as a person.I know, it sounds hard. Impossible. Money, job, travel etc. are the world's agreed on barometer's of success. Who are you to change that?You are the voice of intelligence and reason. You are a good person. You're someone who will win at life. I promise you, in life (and after the age of 35) being a good person is what matters. All that matters.How to start? How do you change your values and start to deliver on them?Start with Facebook. Since you're probably on there already. Make a plan to read 10 posts from friends, and to make yourself feel positive about them. When you feel the self-doubt creep, imagine them being happy. Imagine the event, before and after the post. Imagine them laughing, feeling proud. Let it flow through you. Like yourself feel it too.Happiness is when I see others happy. - Desmond TutuPractice regularly. Happiness and selflessness are infectious and will influence more things you do and feel. What matters to you will start to change over time and materialistic things will matter less.Soon, you'll think, 'Why did I let this get to me? I'm a good person. I bet I'm the only one on Facebook who is truly happy for everyone else. I'm awesome. I wish I knew how to post my awesomeness on Facebook. . . 'You can't, not really. But you'll know, and I'll know - you're a good person.