 There are MANY stories that feature central characters who are unloved and/or unloving (societal, romantic, familial love). Here are a few, most have been made into films but the books are better.Child of God - Cormac McCarthyThe Color Purple - Alice WalkerFrankenstein -  Mary ShelleyThe Old Curiosity Shop - Charles DickensAmerican Psycho - Bret Easton EllisCatcher in the Rye - J.D. SalingerStoner - John WilliamsAnd as far as movies go - look no further than Citizen Kane (1941). Or M (1931) , Taxi Driver (1976), or Sunset Blvd. (1950). I'd write this story same way I'd start any story: with an outline. K.M. Weiland has written a fantastic book Outlining Your Novel: Map Your Way to Success, I recommend. I borrow conceptually from it here, but not directly; 1. Theme/premise - What is this about, what are you trying to say? With the concept of "main character is unloved" there are a few ways this could go.Examples include:Someone who is unloved is bound to take it out on societySomeone who is unloved is bound to take it out on parentsUnloved person was really loved all the time, just couldn't see itUnloved person is unable to also give love and will reject love in all its formsUnloved person is actually better at giving love than most people.Unloved person will spend entire life trying to find love.Unloved person can find self-love and live happily.Find a theme that hasn't been explored to death by literature and find one about which you can say something unique. It helps if you are innately attracted to one of them.OR you could write a story that isn't about love, primarily, it just features a character that is unloved as a background motivation (like Citizen Kane):Person wants to aggregate all the wealth in the worldPerson wants to redeem himself by being overly generous, saviorPerson mistrusts everyone and is concerned with others' downfall2. Story /Plot - What actually happens to develop this theme? Depending on which specific theme you choose, your story arc or plot could go a variety of ways. The most simple way to structure is;(1) Beginning, (2) Middle + Climax, (3) Resolution.I tend to make it chronological first to get the plot right, then I play around with what happened when. I call it Memento-ing the story. I might start with the outcome, not the tragedy, then a flash-back to show how it got there.Examples of a plot include:(1) Unloved person is unloved and (2) then finds love, destroys it (3) lives alone.(1) Unloved person is unloved (2) then doesn't find love and (3) takes revenge(1) Unloved person is unloved (2) expects love, is disappointed (3) loves anyway.3. Ironing out the details. This is actually the bulk of your work, (I'm giving a HIGH level overview, but you should put a lot of pre-writing energy and time into these aspects).Characters - what are character motivations? Start with main character, depending on your theme, it might be to find love, to give love, to reject love, or love might not be the main theme. Do you need a secondary character? Who are they, what are their motivations? Write character backstory, remember; what you are really looking for as you explore your characters' history are the epochs, the catalysts, the notable events that have marked your characters' lives for better or worse in a way they'll never forget.- Outlining your Novel, K.M. WeilandWhat about supporting characters - who are they? What are their motivations? What roles to do they play? What happens to them? What are their backstories?Setting - Where does this take place? Is it a small domestic drama? (Like Jane Austen) or is it a sweeping epic (Like Citizen Kane)? When does it take place, current, past, future? Over 70 years or over 2 weeks, 2 hrs?Plot - You have the main plot, but you need details. You can use What if questions and let your creative percolate and then regulate with structure. Or start with structure and use it to get creative.A few specific plot structures:http://www.writerstoauthors.com/...http://english.learnhub.com/less...Depending on whether you are a bottoms up or top down writer, either way might work (I'm a bottom's up - I generate creative flurry first, then fit it into a structure).Narrative voice -  Will this be in first person? From whose point of view? What are limits or bonuses of having either/or?Keep flushing these things out until you have pages of character information and backstory, a plot line on a wall with key turning points and changes, and lots of research that you probably won't ever use.And then, my friend, WRITE. Like the wind (but with organization and purpose).There are many ways to outline and structure both WRITING and the WRITING PROCESS. A quick internet search will pop up many options. This is just what works for me.