 Not much. The waiter won't starve, you won't be rich.I disagree with answers that say this is about money and impoverished waiters. When individuals choose to be waiters, they accept the relationship between income and service levels.But there is a bigger issue that should compel you to tip. There is a social contract that connects Americans. We abide by it in order to enjoy the privileges our society offers.This social contact includes, among other things;- Not cutting in line (and respecting a line in the first place),- Not letting your dog shit on someone's property,- Not shouting in libraries or churches,- Not disrespecting or defacing a U.S. flag,- Not urinating in public,- Not "accidentally" touching women,- AND tipping waiters. 15% if they are bad, more than 15% if they are good. 0% ONLY if they are offensive and disrespectful and a 0% tip should always be accompanied by a formal complaint to their manager. If you don't have enough money, you come back or apologize very sincerely.Some cities and states institutionalize these rules as laws. Others rely on the good grace of individuals. But all countries expect its citizens - and tourists - to engage in the social contract.The result of this is we - and you by being here - get to enjoy privileges like not stepping dog shit, being free from the stench of someone else's urine, being able to read or pray in peace, being rewarded for waiting and knowing that if you wait, you will get help, and not being groped on the streets.AND you get to enjoy good service at restaurants. I never appreciated service until I moved to the UK, where most waiters would sooner spit on me than take my order. That, incidentally, is also part of the social contract; waiters must provide good service.Tipping waiters is what we do in America. The tipping culture exists to compel better service and cheaper meals. It allows (or should allow) the best waiters to get the most reward. (Whether it does or not is a much bigger issue than you tipping your waiter or not).If you respect America enough to visit, and to enjoy its many, many privileges, you have to respect this too.