 How do you make science content interesting and appealing to people with non-science background?Excellent question. First, your content is fine. You answered the question. Anyone who has ever asked "Why do soldiers . . . " will be pleased with your answer (I would implement Koyel Bandyopadhyay's suggested changes).But what you haven't done, is make it accessible to people who haven't asked this question. That's what you need to work on and what I'll address.If you want to be widely read - or indeed noticed - in the highly-competitive and saturated world of online content you have two options;a) write click-bait crap that gives people fuzzy happy thoughts about themselves and their world OR b) turn insightful, technical content into something more broadly appealing.Option A is as nourishing as white bread. So we'll focus on Option B.1. Don't restrict your answer to the question asked. The question asks about soldiers, bridges - meh. What else is this about? Physics being more powerful than man? Engineering affecting us in ways we can't explain or notice? Military solutions that affect the ways we live our lives? Or perhaps a paradox: When soldiers misstep over bridges they are actually preventing the bridge from collapsing.Reframe it to address a bigger issue.. For example, you'll notice my answer doesn't restrict itself to your question, if I had I'd have just edited your answer directly. Instead, I wrote something hopefully useful for anyone who's wanted to make the technical more broadly appealing.2. Entice readers and make them care using proven techniques of science education. What attracts non-science people to science-related content? Like all people; learning and being entertained. It's your job to teach as they like to learn and entertain as they like to be entertained. It's not hard, use your empathy and reference what works. Here are a few methods:a) Present a problem/phenomenon and debunk/solve it. Like the popular show MythBusters. This show starts with something we've heard about (the episode below debunks the Moon Landing videos) or that sounds unbelievable, and then systematically test the myth.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...This method captures our natural curiosity, curiosity we all had as children but lost as science got more technical and thus exclusionary.You don't need a production budget. When you're writing, lead with the interesting thing. Show a video of soldiers and say "why are they marching like this?" or mention the Millennium Bridge and then tell us (through the rest of the answer) why this happened. Peak our interests and natural inclination to understand that which we do not.b) Lead your audience through the discovery process. Just because I don't have a science background doesn't mean I want to be patronized by those who do. When I'm given a result backed up by some equation, it's not fulfilling and it is off-putting. I want to know why and see it for myself.Shows like How It's Made and Bill Nye, the Science Guy (TV Series 19931998) were able to capture audiences because they show process. In writing, this is easy to do. Walk us through HOW IT WORKS. Perhaps ask us to imagine we are on the bridge and what we might feel and see and then tell us why. Add visuals, videos, links etc. so we can see how this works.c) Add a human drama to something that seems inhuman. This would be the Bear Grylls school of teaching science. Why is Bear Grylls so popular? Because of Bear Grylls.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...He is surviving, he is frustrated, fearful, worried, anxious, passionate. We care about him - THAT is the drama. When he eats sheep eyes it's a lovely bonus. Why does the bridge/soldier issue matter? Has anyone died? Do they march in a different way because of it? What is the human drama? The Broughton story is great: "In 1831 the British Army collapsed a bridge in Broughton simply by walking over it. What resulted was a change in how armies to this day walk across bridges." Humans & history was affected, that's interesting.d) Show us you care and infect us with your enthusiasm. Physicist Richard Feynman was excellent at this and thus, quite accessible to everyone, not just science-minds. He coined the phrase "A kick in the discovery" his term for finding something new and original. This phrase, as well as much of his writing, tells us much about who he is and how much he cares. When we understand and care about him, we understand and care about what he's telling us. You could add a personal story of your own related to the issue (I was on a bridge once and this is what happened). Put yourself and your passion into your writing. If we're going to listen to you, we have to know you. 3. Maintain empathy for your audience in your tone, words and examples. What does your audience react to? Try to minimize specific-speak that can be confusing or off-putting. Link to Wikipedia. Use metaphors or similes. Draw connections "the give of a bridge that allows for this movement is the same give that allows massive trucks to drive across or the force that can make us fly off a trampoline when someone else is bouncing on it" (I made up that science but you get my point).We all speak different technical languages, being aware of your own and how it sounds will help you speak to more people.4. Ok, MOST IMPORTANT - Now that you've read all I've said, take a step back and decide is this really how you want to write? It's 100% up to you how you write and for what purpose: to further scientific knowledge, to answer specific questions, to engage people in new concepts. Think about it. Why are you here? What do you hope to accomplish? What do you hope to give to others?I assumed you wanted to reach non-science people because that was your question, but are you sure about that? To what extent? Good luck, whatever you do, I hope you keep writing. :)