 This question really affected me and I feel for you because I have been there, many times. Since moving to England, where they use the word mental to mean a lot of things, I say it. That was mental. Or you're being mental (to my husband). I could imagine a situation where it pops out at someone who feels it more deeply and personally. And here is the thing, I have a mental illness! But I throw it around. I do to reduce the power of it, make it mean something less. But as you said, it's less about that word and more about "letting it show."I live with this fear every day. I have anxiety about it every hour of every single day. I'm afraid that someone will see, think I'm not normal, treat me with gloves, be afraid of me, think less of me, reject me, hate me. Call me mental. Crazy. Not normal.I feel most of the time like I have this awful monster inside of me. (The term is derogatory, I've played with making it less so - like "Polar Bear." I'm just not there yet.) A monster of sadness, anger, hatred, fear, panic, mental illness, all bad things. I have to keep him fed, tame, and hidden. It takes tremendous energy. And it is so lonely sometimes I can't think straight.But when I do that, keep him down, people love me. Except, that doesn't last. Because I tell myself it's only because they don't know. If they really saw this monster - they'd fear me. Judge me. Diminish me. Leave me.Most people are ok hearing you have a mental illness. They even ask about it. How are you doing? How is that mental illness? No one is ok seeing it. No one wants to see the monster. Once they see it, that's all they see. You can't put it back, you can't get them to see the normal you. It'll never be the same. Even the ones who say, no, I know, it's ok. I'll love you. You know they won't.So, what do you do? You ask about getting thicker skin. Which is, in a sense, building a stronger cage for the monster. That might work, and should work around random people - you have no need for them to affect you. You are paranoid that this person actually thinks you are crazy - he or she has no idea. I PROMISE you, he or she doesn't think you are any more crazy than anyone else. You are hiding it more than you think. Trust me on that, if I've learned one thing, it's that we're better at "not letting it show" than we think.Another solution is to let this monster out of the cage, for walks, occasionally, with people you trust. Do you have people around whom you can have your mental illness? You have to. You have to let someone in and let someone help you with this. The reason that your question affected me is that I immediately realized, I don't have anyone. No, I have one person, my husband. He's the only person I show. He's the only person in my life who I can SHOW my monster to. Not even my cats! Ha. That makes it worst, I realize now, not showing people - hiding it, makes it worse.The first step is telling someone, people, you trust, about this. Letting them in. Tell them what you feel. What happens. What you go through. I think the second step, is helping other people with THEIR monsters. I can't tell you how many times I've let people cry to me. Tell me things. Show me the darkest parts of themselves. Everyone opens up to me. It took me a while to realize, THESE are their monsters! Just, more tame than mine. But it really isn't that different. All humans have depths and darkness.Next step, show them yours. I'm not there yet. Maybe we can work on this together? In the meantime, I'll start calling it my Polar Bear, maybe that will remove some stigma. No more monster.