 I need to answer this in two parts. 1. What is an Essay (and how do you define it)?2. How can you write a better one?I don't mean to patronize but if you want to write essays, you must know what they are, and what they aren't. I'm not sure many people know or agree on the definition, I'm not sure I know, but I'll essais to describe it.And that stupid pun is the essence what we're talking about. The Essais (conjugation of the French verb essayer, to try), was popularized by French writer/statesman/man of letters Michel de Montaigne as a writing that attempts to prove, describe, debate, and discuss something critical and fundamental and perhaps not conclusively decided. "Functional prose" it's been called.Montaigne wrote Essais in 1580 as a combination of political viewpoints, personal anecdotes and self-discovery. Surprisingly the volumes were mainly attractive to females, at least those were fortunate enough to be able to read. Or perhaps not surprising since the writings were intimate and personal in nature.From Montaigne to present, the essay has taken many forms and frequently used more as a genre to describe a well-conceived, argued, reasoned, non-fiction. Which is a very broad genre, indeed. Obviously there are nuances but understanding the polemics of The Essay is critical. The Wikipedia entry on Essays is outstandingly good starting point, relying on Aldous Huxley's taxonomy of Essay types:1) The personal and the autobiographical: The essayists that feel most comfortable in this pole "write fragments of reflective autobiography and look at the world through the keyhole of anecdote and description"2) The objective, the factual, and the concrete-particular: The essayists that write from this pole "do not speak directly of themselves, but turn their attention outward to some literary or scientific or political theme. Their art consists on setting forth, passing judgement upon, and drawing general conclusions from the relevant data"3) The abstract-universal: In this pole "we find those essayists who do their work in the world of high abstractions", who are never personal and who seldom mention the particular facts of experience.I tried to find examples of each in broad topics so you could see how much they vary;An example of #1 would be Joan Didion's long-form essay "The Year of Magical Thinking" which describes the year following her husband's sudden death and using that frame of reference to explore death, loss, grief, loneliness etc. It is highly personal (too personal, if you ask me).Virginia Woolf's A Room of One's Own is another excellent example but with more personal distance. She states up front that she will address the issue of women and fiction (namely what prevents women from creating fiction) and will do so by presenting us her logic and reasoning not the actual answer because "when a subject is highly controversial, one cannot hope to tell the truth, one can only show how one came to hold whatever opinion on does hold."An example of #2 would be Thomas Malthus's An Essay on the Principle of Population, which few people have read but everyone thinks of as shorthand for the argument "people will outpace food supplies." Malthus talks in data and numbers and logic and reasons his (incorrect) points.Another example would be Steven Pinker's The Sense of Style: The Thinking Person's Guide to Writing in the 21st Century (a book I recommend reading to learn more about writing). Omitting the intro, Steven doesn't reference himself directly but he does base his arguments in facts and knowledge he's accumulated. #3 is harder to find because most people write on the backs of others. Only the most abstract philosophical writing falls in this category but that stuff is so dense it's not useful. Here are 2 examples which come close to being abstract:Milan Kundera's The Art of the Novel contains a few of these essays, although he references himself as the author, he focuses on philosophical abstraction. The Depreciated Legacy of Cervantes is particularly good. This book might appeal to you as a writer as well. Kundera is an immensely thoughtful and self-aware person, a master of self-expression.My second example for this abstractness is Colin Wilson's 1956 classic The Outsider. A long essay about alienation, creativity and the modern mind. It explores the concept of one who - for a variety of reasons - views society from without. I responded to the content as a writer, but the Essay structure is also good and informative.Personally, I try to fight against thinking of Essay as "a literary genre of anything non-fiction." I would argue Quora answers are not remotely essays (not even this one). The author has to expand to multiple points before it can be rich enough to be an essay, at best they are reports or articles. Medium, however, is more prone to essay writing, and very good ones at that. (Although Quora does have Essayists, like our much-admired Chloe Shani Malveaux who approaches every answer with thoughtful, didactic and reasoned Essay on not just the question asked but the implications surrounding it. Jon Davis is another Essayist).In my mind an Essay is thoughtful writing that dances around an issue, presenting its attributes and points/counterpoints in an effort to fully engage thoughtful, open minds and bring all of us to a new level of thought or awareness. An essay accepts it might not be the defining argument/viewpoint, but it presents the best reasoned argument as it occurs to the author. It shows the hand of the author, as necessary support or to indicate possible biases.Figure out what you want your Essay to be (and not be) and it will be much easier to write it consistently and coherently.In the mean time, how do you improve your essay-writing skills?Take time to read either the examples I mentioned, especially Pinker and Kundera to know how the genre has progressed and changed and just how much latitude there can be. Find subjects that interest you, keep in mind the best ones will be conceptual, i.e. don't look for essays on soldiers, look for essays on bravery, valor, patriotism, selflessness, citizenry etc. Check out www.brainpickings.org/ for reviews of Essays, Letters, Notes, Confessions etc.. Search by terms and buy the books that interest you.Next I'd buy a few copies of the excellent, curated annual collection, The Best American Essays. The collection started in 1986, the last 10 years are online. Each year contains about 2o essays that vary in personal voice and topic but are all imminently readable. Lately they've tended to be Essay type #1 but that's modern writing for you, everything has to be personal.As you read them, ask these questions:1) What is author's conceptual premise and how overtly is it stated?2) How are counterpoints or views presented and are they resolved? 3) Why nature of facts or beliefs does the author use to support her conclusions (theory, data, argument)4) Who is the audience, does it matter? 5) What level of personal anecdote is involved, is it too much/too little? The ones you gravitate towards are the ones you should emulate. These questions are to help you figure out why you like them.Finally, on the craft of Essay writing, I've found these helpful (I'll add more as I read more);William Zinsser's On Writing Well. I think is 30 yrs old and still kicking. C. S. Lakin's The Fiction Writer's Handy Guide to Grammar, Punctuation, and Word Usage it says "fiction" but it's universally useful.I wouldn't recommend instruction manuals. You are much too talented for form essay and you will most certainly be limited by it.