 Neither. Both are bad ideas because they create cliche, clutter and distraction.But you do bring up a dilemma, which I see as:"How do you show continued (secondary) action* or traits in a way that they remain in the readers mind without being repeated?"That is a great question, common problem. Here is how: 1. Trust your reader - don't repeat. We're smarter than you think. If you say 'he flashed his gums when he smiled' we'll picture it and remember it. If you say "he flashed his gums" once in a scene, we know he's upset and we will remember that. We get it. 2. Separate your characters' behaviors between characteristics and actions and call attention to them as needed.A CHARACTERISTIC (or common behavior) is something that happens always because it is the character. Example: John smiled so wide he was more gum than tooth.That's visual, we'll remember. You don't have to remind us after your original description. If you feel this is critical to the character (although I don't know why it would be) and we might forget by page 300, have another character comment on it.An ACTION (uncommon behavior) is something that happens once (or several times in a scene but only in a scene) and is thus significant, a departure of our normal visual of this character. You should describe it.Example: He flashed his red gums at me. I.e. he sneered (I assume?)This was necessary because he's not always sneering. Tells me the guy is angry. Or is he smiling? Ah, to my next point.. . 3. Don't use long descriptions when simple ones will do.(I'm picking on your examples here, yes, forgive me.) He sneered is MUCH clearer than He flashed his red gums at me.I hear the former, I think 'yup, dude's upset. Probably at the narrator.' Got it. Ohhhh, wonder what happens next?The latter has me wondering 'Is he's smiling? Sneering? Why are his gums red, does he not take care of them? Is he afraid of dentists? Why is he afraid of dentists?' Did he have a bad experience? Why? . . so on.I'm distracted from the main point; this dude is upset. Sure, you might proceed in the next lines to tell me all about his phobia of drills and shots and yes, Ellen, he IS afraid of dentists. And this might be really well-written and detailed and well-researched except I'm going to be sitting there thinking (possibly yelling):WHY DOES THIS MATTER? FUCK DENTISTS!! I HATE THIS AUTHOR!If you don't need to say more than "He sneered" don't. Lengthy descriptions with no value distract the reader and increase the risk of inadvertently using a cliches like these.4. Nevertheless, sometimes action DOES need to be repeated because its repetition is intrinsic to the scene/story. Actions that show a character's anxiety or unrest, for example, should be mentioned. But usually, once is enough;Harry started running his hands through his hair while he tried to answer my question. She noticed that Harry had a quite disturbing tendency to run his fingers through his hair when he was nervous. I couldn't breath but for the noise of Harry running his goddam fingers through his motherfucking hair.Or the more direct approach, put it in dialog"If you don't stop running your fingers through you hair I'm going to hit you with a frying pan!" She screamed,; her red gums flashing. So, in sum. Don't repeat. If you have to repeat, do it simply and subtly only as much as you need and if it adds to what is most important in the scene.*I made up this phrase. Secondary action means like chewing, spitting, shaking etc. Primary action is running, slapping, screaming. I don't know, like I said, I made it up.