 You don't like this non-credit world? Really?Oh, that must be because you are a current user. You're not thinking about it right. You're not thinking about it like Quora does. They are not interested in you. I mean they are, they want to keep you and keep your account active - if you have a good bio, ask good questions and write good answers. If you don't - it's fine if you lurk.But what they are REALLY interested in is the marginal non-Quora user who types into Google "What camera took the photo of Pluto and how does it work?" and the top return is a link to Quora. Because Quora has the best answers on the internet. This is where their growth is. To get to the BEST answer returned in a Google search, they have to get the BEST answer according to their algorithm.Your promotions were getting in the way. You promote bad content. You distort the system. I don't, because I'm a Top Writer, and I have proven good taste - except, I don't. Crap. No, my promotions weren't good either, and I actually made more of a mess because I have so many credits and promoted so often.So now they're removing the untrustworthy human component which might not lead to the best answer on the internet, and replacing it with well, nothing. More reliance on specific titles, bios, answer length, citations and upvotes by people who also have a history of specific titles, bios, answer length etc.So the UPSIDE is that it's highly likely if you're not a Quora user and you type a question into Google, you will get the best answer on the internet and that answer will be on Quora. This is good for Quora is it's likely that those Tip Top answerers - Blue Check people - whose answer counts for more than yours because it's more likely to be the best answer on the internet - will be more likely to find and contribute to Quora. Quora needs these people. Thousands of of Blue Check folks are not on Quora. Yet.Both of these things are excellent for Quora in realizing its stated goal and for improving all-around content. (If you trust their algorithm).The DOWNSIDE is to current users, the community. - Loss of a primary user-driver; gaming - (Read Robert's answer) but they will solve that. It's easy enough to do outside of the algorithm and they certainly have the data to reward people for milestones.- Onslaught of A2As - they will figure this out too, how to prioritize them. For one, it will affect the Quora employees, I can't imagine Marc Bodnick putting up with endless A2As, can you?- No, the biggest loss is to the community. It's a tear in the social fabric. A fabric that's stitched when I upvote you and you promote me and then we mutually exchange a PM or remember each other's avatars and follow each other. And multiply this by 100k a day so that we all feel connected here to something bigger. This bigger thing connects us to Quora far more than wanting to know the best answers on the internet. The bigger thing this interconnectedness, this fabric - it is what makes us care.It's the fabric keeps us here, keeps us engaged, keeps us investing in others, keeps us writing. Maybe not providing "the best answer on the internet" but thoughtful, provocative, insightful things.To me, the human element - caring - is everything. Quora taking steps to remove that element, bit-by-bit, will absolutely make me less interested in returning to the site. But - and I don't say this in self-pity, not remotely, perhaps that is what they want? Or at least, they don't mind that consequence. I can accept that. Quora's a business. It will do what it has to do as a business. If not keeping me happy is part of that, so be it. Ultimately, is this credit change good or bad? Depends on how you use Quora. It might be good, bad or irrelevant. I have no insight into Quora's changes or motivations. The answer is speculation, not fact.