 There are three lists you need to own/watch to save yourself from almost all* movie ignorance. Or, as you said, to know the "greats."1. Movies to seem interesting and bond casually with people at college/new job/Quora.If you want to sound pop-culturally relevant, hip, interesting, with it to the young folk - go with Noam Kaiser's list. It's dead on balls accurate.2. Movies to confidently refer to movies as "film" (and back it up when someone at college/new job/Quora calls you on it). I'll keep the list short (way, way too short), but I'm happy to go into detail. These FILMS are great and will be great for a damn long time.Romance: It Happened One Night, Casablanca, Annie Hall, Breakfast at Tiffany's, Broken Blossoms, Before Sunrise.Comedy: The General, Big Lebowski, Clerks, Bringing up Baby, Fish Called Wanda, Forrest Gump, Fargo, Some like it HotWar: Bridge on the River Kwai, Schindler's List, Apocalypse Now, SniperWesterns: The Searchers, Stagecoach, Unforgiven, No Country for Old MenForeign: (By directors); Bunuel, Almodovar, Renoir, Kurasawa, Bergman, Truffaut, Ozu, Fritz Lang, Herzog, del Toro Drama (and everything else): Citizen Kane, On the Waterfront, Double Indemnity, Raging Bull, Good Fellas, Old Boy, The Fugitive, Network, Godfather I & II, Vertigo, Patton.3. Movies to understand the "quotes" everyone (Americans) use constantly.Did you think I made up the phrase dead on balls accurate? Please. My Cousin Vinny (1992)My husband and I talk in movie quotes. It might be one of the coolest things we do so I'm going to give you an example:- Talk to me Goose.- You talking to me? I am Spartacus!- It ain't cool being no jive turkey this close to Thanksgiving. - I want the truth! - You can't handle the truth. - I coulda been a contender! I coulda been somebody. Instead of a bum, which is what I am. - What we got here, is a failure to communicate.- You wanna dance? Or do you want to dance?- You sentimental old fool.- Give him head? - Be a beacon?- That's the kind of thing an idiot would have on his luggage!- Obviously you're not a golfer.- Follow me, I know the way! Sha-na-na-na-na-na-na- And like that, he's gone. Got lost once in his own museum.**(And then we get stuck in Indiana Jones and never make it out.) Relax. You don't have to see these movies. Just repeat the quotes at the socially acceptable time. That's what everyone does. If you don't know any make one up and say it came from Donnie Darko (2001) or Full Metal Jacket (1987). Two movies everyone thinks they should have seen and are usually embarrassed to admit they haven't. Have fun! I'm jealous. There are many movies I wish I could watch for the first time. I should mention that watching these movies won't give you a remote comprehensive understanding of film as an art form. But you didn't ask for that so, whatever.May the Schwartz be with you!!*You can't never fully avoid "Wow, you've never seen XYZ??" So fucking annoying. I told an ex I hadn't seen Dune. 'Dune? You've never seen Dune?! How could you not see Dune?' Yeah well, Dune isn't a thing and now neither are we. Annoying. UNLESS the movie in question is the original Star Wars Trilogy and then you should be mocked, nay - thrown into a garbage masher on the detention level, if you haven't seen it. SW is the most available, most recognizable and most commonly watched movie of all time. Has there ever been a basement or living room that didn't screen it? No. If you've managed to avoid it thus far, you're doing it on purpose. And you're a shit.**Movie Quote Mashup included: Spaceballs, Thomas Crown Affair, Cool Hand Luke, Trading Spaces, Caddyshack, Usual Suspects, Big Lebowski, Sneakers, Taxi Driver, Sabrina, Top Gun, Heat of the Night, On the Waterfront, Spartacus, Few Good Men