 I need to answer this in two parts. 1. What is an Essay (and how do you define it)?2. How can you write a better one?I don't mean to patronize but if you want to write essays, you must know what they are, and what they aren't. I'm not sure many people know or agree on the definition, I'm not sure I know, but I'll essais to describe it.And that stupid pun is the essence what we're talking about. The Essais (conjugation of the French verb essayer, to try), was popularized by French writer/statesman/man of letters Michel de Montaigne as a writing that attempts to prove, describe, debate, and discuss something critical and fundamental and perhaps not conclusively decided. "Functional prose" it's been called.Montaigne wrote Essais in 1580 as a combination of political viewpoints, personal anecdotes and self-discovery. Surprisingly the volumes were mainly attractive to females, at least those were fortunate enough to be able to read. Or perhaps not surprising since the writings were intimate and personal in nature.From Montaigne to present, the essay has taken many forms and frequently used more as a genre to describe a well-conceived, argued, reasoned, non-fiction. Which is a very broad genre, indeed. Obviously there are nuances but understanding the polemics of The Essay is critical. The Wikipedia entry on Essays is outstandingly good starting point, relying on Aldous Huxley's taxonomy of Essay types:1) The personal and the autobiographical: The essayists that feel most comfortable in this pole "write fragments of reflective autobiography and look at the world through the keyhole of anecdote and description"2) The objective, the factual, and the concrete-particular: The essayists that write from this pole "do not speak directly of themselves, but turn their attention outward to some literary or scientific or political theme. Their art consists on setting forth, passing judgement upon, and drawing general conclusions from the relevant data"3) The abstract-universal: In this pole "we find those essayists who do their work in the world of high abstractions", who are never personal and who seldom mention the particular facts of experience.I tried to find examples of each in broad topics so you could see how much they vary;An example of #1 would be Joan Didion's long-form essay "The Year of Magical Thinking" which describes the year following her husband's sudden death and using that frame of reference to explore death, loss, grief, loneliness etc. It is highly personal (too personal, if you ask me).Virginia Woolf's A Room of One's Own is another excellent example but with more personal distance. She states up front that she will address the issue of women and fiction (namely what prevents women from creating fiction) and will do so by presenting us her logic and reasoning not the actual answer because "when a subject is highly controversial, one cannot hope to tell the truth, one can only show how one came to hold whatever opinion on does hold."An example of #2 would be Thomas Malthus's An Essay on the Principle of Population, which few people have read but everyone thinks of as shorthand for the argument "people will outpace food supplies." Malthus talks in data and numbers and logic and reasons his (incorrect) points.Another example would be Steven Pinker's The Sense of Style: The Thinking Person's Guide to Writing in the 21st Century (a book I recommend reading to learn more about writing). Omitting the intro, Steven doesn't reference himself directly but he does base his arguments in facts and knowledge he's accumulated. #3 is harder to find because most people write on the backs of others. Only the most abstract philosophical writing falls in this category but that stuff is so dense it's not useful. Here are 2 examples which come close to