 Oh heavens, yes!Many attributes of writing (notwithstanding 'writing as a career') are instinctively romantic, aka 'idealized':It's a profession that relies on talents of creativity and even dreaming and pondering.When people write they self-express, it's empowering to even the weakest writers.Writing forces you to practice thoughtfulness, mindfulness, relaxation - like exercise, it makes you feel good.There is independence, not having a boss or manager. You do it for yourself.Learning, interacting, being inspired - things that others do for pleasure - are part of the work.The rules are made to be broken. Yes, there is a lot of craft in all types of writing, but breaking free of that *could* make you a better writer.The accolades! The upvotes, likes, fans etc. To be a writer is to be seen, loved.These are all wonderful attributes that probably have lured more than one innocent diary-writer into being more than a diary-writer. Add that to the ease with which one can get "published" (you really just need an internet connection and a few thousand words) and sure, writing is ideal!The reason it's overrated is that people erroneously think these wonderful attributes become EXPONENTIAL when you do it as a career. They'd be wrong. I've met zero full-time writers who romanticize their careers. They love it, but they see it for what it is and do it because it's worth the costs. What are the costs? Why is writing as a career not as ideal as it seems?Creating is a small part of it. The rest of it, is administrative. Editing, typing, publicizing, communicating, studying, etc. People don't see what you do as a career. More like an overwrought hobby. We hear a lot of "What fun, I wish I could do that!' Well, you can. You just have to learn to not have much income or success.You are 'free' because you make your own hours, yes, however 'Free' to you is "can be taken advantage of" to someone else. Oh Ellen can do it, its not like she works or anything.Progress and accomplishment are mythical. Get used to not having any. People ask me where I'm published. I'm not yet.. . But I'm getting better every week! I see the pity in their eyes.Every. Single. Thing. You. Do. Will. Be. Judged. And usually rejected. If it's not being rejected, get a new audience.You create something JUST to destroy it and remake it. And not necessarily for the better. Not super efficient.The hours. The time. The hours. The time. What did you do today? Ummm, I didn't write something awful. Also, I did some thinking . . You don't do it for yourself. We'd love to just create something new and unique, but writers have to think about the commercial aspect if we want to survive. We have to self-promote and hustle. And compromise.It's lonely. Not just because it's often done in solitude, but because you create this thing that no one will see as you do. The way you feel about your work, that is yours and yours alone. My writing comes from a depth that I must travel to alone. I've never felt so alone. Career writers see writing as hard work, but worth it. Occasionally it has rewards, but you don't expect them. You don't anticipate them. Our rewards are in making a good product.We can't romanticize. We're too busy getting our experiences into ideas our ideas into sentences our sentences into words and our words on a page. And then perhaps a wine before we tear it all up and try again. (The day drinking is nice though, I admit.)