 You should well ask and I know why you did, because in this answer I tell everyone to fail.(Except I didn't mean GO FAIL, I meant, GO SUCCEED without being afraid of failing.)I digress. Good question. I always feared after that post, people who read it were out there, failing, without a clue how to bounce back. It kept me up at night.And yet it took me weeks to answer this A2A because my immediate thoughts were - not joking - But, I've never failed!That's right, I'VE NEVER FAILED.  I haven't. Not really.Not in the way people talk about it today. I've done wrong, messed up, made mistakes. Some big, some bigger, some Texas-sized.But I've nothing in common with the ubiquitous failure porn writers who treat failure as a series of colossal external events - over which they have no control - which for some reason happened to them and now they carry the failure around like badge of honor or a mark of Cain and that makes them great - just having failed.I don't wear failure badges. I just have me, the product of my failures.My failures aren't external or things that happen to me. They are things I did. And thus, they become me. I'm responsible for them and I could have prevented them (if I'd wanted to). I've always believed this, a product of parents with high expectations. This belief grants me power and responsibility.Responsibility because it means that I have to own my failures and push myself to face what I could have done. Saying "I FAILED" is bullshit and it will do nothing for you. It's like Grade 1 self-awareness. Great, you can say you failed. So what? "I FAILED AND HERE'S WHY . . . " that is tough. Commendable. That's what I go for.Facing what I could have done isn't easy, I process failure pretty thoroughly. I look at process, effort, desire, details, strategy - every aspect. I process at it so thoroughly, it's digestive.It's almost like I eat my failures. Sounds weird. But that's the process. I cut them up, slather on the sauce (usually beer, real beer, not metaphorical beer), and chew and digest and once I've extracted all the protein, calcium, magnesium and other fine goodness that my body needs, you know, you s*^t the rest and move on.I ate a burger two nights ago, couldn't tell you where it is now. Parts of it I'm using in my cells, parts of it I left behind. It doesn't exist as a burger.Same with failures. They don't stick with me as things because that means I haven't broken them down and used them. Say I lost $1M. If I keep talking about having lost $1M and fixate on that (which on it's own means nothing) rather than all the events that lead up to it and past it.. . I'm stuck. I don't grow.Failure is an inflection point, not a badge.You have to step off the inflection point and move on. It's a steep drop but it's also a new beginning which is exciting. Take time to process the emotions but don't let them take over. Digest your failures, get the nourishment they can provide, and you will achieve great power. I don't carry failures around as such, but their residue is in everything I write, communicate, think and say. They are part of me. That's where the power comes from. I believe I can do most anything that I want and I have myself to blame if I don't.I wrote an answer telling people to fail because it is important part of growing and developing. One shouldn't fear failure. But you don't have to fail in order to learn about yourself and grow, it's just one of the many ways to mature and develop.But if you do fail, don't wear it as a badge, it doesn't make you special. Eat it and use it.