 You might suffer from what's called The Tyranny of the Final Product.*Writers - self included - are intimidated by a desire to write the final say on the most interesting thing that has never been said and to make it perfect.This gives your final product power, too much power, tyrannical power. And like most tyrannies - creativity dies from fear of failure.Here is the secret, make this your mantra:ONLY WRITE ABOUT THINGS THAT INTEREST YOU.Yes, you. Just you. Not your spouse or teacher or dog or your self 5 years from now. Just your self today, this week. That's it. Do this always, for as long as you write. Why? Here's why:1. Readers don't know what they care about until they read it. You have a LOT more latitude than you think. Ignore trends, if something is trending, you've missed it. Trends weren't always trends, at some point they were someone's original thought.Do you think people in 1965 were sitting around thinking "Gawsh, could do with a story about mass murder of a family in the heart of the Midwest." Hardly. Truman Capote wrote In Cold Blood because the story was interesting to him, he made it interesting to us.Yeah, (you say) but Ellen, that's a story about murder. It's bound to be interesting. You'd be right. Except....2. If you write well, you can make anything interesting. One of my favorite authors is Robin Lane Fox. He is the Head Gardener for University of Oxford and writes a weekly column in the Financial Times and wrote Thoughtful Gardening. I garden, so naturally, it was literary butter for me. That's not why I mention it. My husband (a guy who I send to the garden for herbs and he returns EVERY SINGLE TIME with cuttings from each herbaceous plant EXCEPT herbs - I should cook geranium stems to teach him a lesson) also loved the book. Because it is superbly well-written.3. If you don't care, we won't care. Good writing doesn't just start well and end well, or have a good story, or humor or insight - it has an author's voice. An author's confidence and enthusiasm. Get excited about what you are writing about - whatever it is - and we'll get excited.Ok (now you say) but Ellen, what if nothing interests me? Really? Nothing is interesting? Then do us a favor - don't write a blog.Too many people want to have written a book, or to have published a blog, they don't want to actually write. Their ratio of time spent writing vs. time spent marketing is 1:20. And they produce crap.Don't be this person who wants to have written. Be someone who wants to write.Care about something, find things interesting, dig deep until you do and enjoy writing, at least a little bit. See, now that we've had this discussion (I imagine us having tea and chatting. Maybe because I'm drinking tea now) I think there are a lot of interesting things around you, and I think you find many things interesting. And I think YOU are interesting. Perhaps you just need a little nudge. Here is a nudge to find that interesting thing.1. Narrow your scope. Don't tackle massive themes or sweeping time frames. Rather than tell us the story of all the immigrants on Ellis Island, tell the story of one. Ok, that was cliche, here's another example. Rather than telling us about dogs. Write about your dog. Or rather than writing about your dog, write about your dog in the morning. Or rather than writing about your dog in the morning, write about your dog THIS morning. That's how you narrow. 2. Focus on the human element. The most interesting part of every interesting story are the humans. What they think, why they think. Find them, winkle them out, make them the story. Do interviews, interviews are amazing.3. Give yourself permission to suck. Going back to the Tyranny of the final product - your goal isn't a good article, or even 10 good articles. Your goal is to be A GOOD WRITER WHO KEEPS IMPROVING. In 6 months, your goal might change, your goal might be to develop a kick ass portfolio. Fine. But right now, starting out, focus on the craft. Focus on the writing.4. Give yourself permission to be good. There is something about writing that makes one modest. Everyone is doing it. Everyone is a writer. Everyone has a blog. You haven't published anything yet.... yadda. Wrong. Be good. Be a rockstar. You will get better if you think, read, write deliberately and you will have to face this. When it happens, embrace it and run with it.You can do it. Check back in 6 months. If you get stuck, PM me. I'm good with idea development. I'm blunt though. And I demand tea. *On Writing Well: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction, William Zinsser: Books by William Zinsser, Chapter 22 in particular. Excellent book.A few more resources:- What are the best books on writing?How can I improve my writing skills?Where can I find writing prompts?