 It felt like a natural extension of our relationship and nothing out of the ordinary. In fact, I can't exactly remember which one of us said it first or how it happened.We don't really have a *story.* But I'll attempt to tell our non-story here:We were living together in Palo Alto, about to graduate from Stanford Business School and feeling anxious about the fact that we had jobs in different cities. I took a job in Chicago and he in New York.So we discussed what to do: Should we stay together? Yes, we think so. Should we plan to visit each other regularly? Probably, makes sense. Should we just get married? Oooh, we don't know. We need to think. Maybe? But how do we know? We didn't know.I am 90% sure I was the one who said "Shouldn't we just get married?" Does that count as a proposal?Regardless, marriage was now in the air, it was out, it was between us. We thought about it. For a week or two. And in the meantime graduated GSB and planned our summer trip to hike in the National Parks in Southern Utah.And then we went out to a movie with friends. Up (2009) The first sequence, when Carl and Ellie are living out their life, growing older in love. Both of us took each other's hand and from that point, we knew. We wanted to be that couple. No - we WERE that couple already. That is really important. We recognized ourselves and our future life and marriage just kinda fell into place.We looked at rings the next day. I wanted one that looked like my mother's, yellow gold, single diamond. Classic. But they didn't have that. Yellow gold wasn't *in.* Which made me want it even more. They had to order it. My husband wanted to get me a bigger diamond, I talked him down a carrot, or half, or a third I can't recall. He forgave me.When he got the engagement ring he arranged an official proposal and it was lovely and I think my response was "Great. Go call my parents. Oh, and yes, of course!"It felt like nothing built up or romantic. It felt like us. Totally, completely us. Taking the next obvious step in our lives together.Thanks Disney.