 Fiction has more POVs than you can shake a stick due to the combination of characters and what insight we're allowed for each. It's not as simple as 1st, 2nd, 3rd.. . THAT BEING SAID - I'm going to shake that stick at the most COMMON POVs because they are what you'll use most.This is my view (haha) of different POVs and when to use them.1. 1st PERSON NARRATIONWhat is it?"I" (the main character) am the narrator: I saw this, I said, I felt.... Everyone else and everything that happens is related to the reader through my personal lens. This is a unique approach because the reader gets full access to the character's self-awareness or lack there of. We readers see first hand what is going on in the protagonist's mind. When self-awareness, or lack there of, is a component of the theme, 1st person works well.Example: I felt sad. Susie looked at me, she looked confused. Jane shivered when she looked at me, she was probably angry. We know what the narrator feels, and what he notices the others do and what he thinks they feel.Considerations for using this narrative perspective:- Bonds the reader to the main character because there is no narrative distance between reader and character. - Empowers the reader to make his/her decisions about the character. You, the reader, feel this person is talking to you, you alone get to decide what you feel about him, no 3rd person tells you about him.- Remember, however, that the character might be an unreliable narrator, if this is the point, make it very clear so readers understand- It creates an immediacy of the story. This story is now, happening, important, and critical, thus, I - character - am stepping out of my "life" to tell it. - It only conveys as much as the character sees or understand. Things that happen outside of his awareness can't be relayed unless the author drops the pretense and switches to 3rd person, a trick often overused.- It can be difficult to write. All characters exist as the narrator sees them. Which means while they have their own voice, syntax, personas, those all must be filtered through the narrators view, not full-on. Dialog gets around this but again, it's often overused. - Do we want to spend this much time with this narrator? It might not be kind of person we can listen to for an entire book. People often complain about Catcher because of this, mistaking Holden's immature narration as a causality of bad writing.- It's difficult for new authors not to put their own voice into the characters. The character needs to have their own consistent vernacular and personality.- Rare, but what if your character dies? Story stops. Unless you pick it up with someone else or 3rd person but that is a big shift in the book.Examples of books that use 1st person narration well- The Catcher in the Rye (1951) is perhaps the best example. The immediacy of Holden's feelings, his reactions, his vernacular, his limitations is the theme of the book. Kerouac's On the Road (1951) in 1st person for similar reasons and works extremely well. Neither would have been as poignant in 3rd person.- Of course, if your character is a psychotic, deranged killer, you almost have to use first person, see Bret Easton Ellis' American Psycho. Good example of a unreliable narrator.- Frankenstein, by Mary Shelley uses 3 different 1st person POV, nestled like Russian dolls, It allows the reader to sympathize with each character.(although believing that one character can perfectly recall another's words so exactly requires suspension of disbelief.) Technically, this is also an alternating narrative because it switches narrators.2. 3rd PERSON NARRATION (intimate)What is it?Story is not narrated directly from any direct perspective, but it is intimate with at least one main character's thoughts and feelings and what he/she notices and thinks. First person would say "I felt sick." 3rd person "He felt sick."This is the most common, and most easily employed type. Example: John felt sad. Susie gave him a confused look. Jane, shivered when she saw John's face.  We only know what John thinks, but we have actions that suggest what Susie and Jane think.Considerations for using this narrative perspective- The more removed we are from a characters mind, the easier it is to add texture to the stories; things like scenery, atmosphere, mood, motifs etc. Long scenery descriptions in first person are weird, because most individuals don't survey scenery to the extent a 3rd person narrator would.- Allows for richer characters due to multiple points of view, reactions, thoughts and motivations.- Similarly, can add tension because reader can more clearly see the emotions of fear and anger - as well as situation irony that lead to tension. - Often it is easier for authors to write because not every line has to be in the main character's syntax and vernacular. - There are many subtle variations on this POV style; you might be in the heads of 1 person and make them the de facto narrator (like 1st person POV but slightly removed), or perhaps 5 people - each one drawn out and complex.- Careful not to go into too many heads at once. Knowing what each and every person is thinking actually creates emotional distanceExamples of books that use 3rd person narration well- The Children Act, Ian McEwan's latest is in limited (and unreliable) 3rd person, the Judge, but only her thoughts and feelings are known and everyone else is seen by her. Fitting for her character as she struggles to comprehend the emotions and needs of others.- J.M. Coetzee's Disgrace is similarly inside the head of 1 character. The 3rd person allows for atmospheric descriptions and pacing and tone that wouldn't have worked in 1st person. At the same time, we're so intimate with the protagonist's thoughts that it achieves the best effects of 1st person narration. 3. 3rd PERSON OMNISCIENT NARRATIONWhat is it?Omniscient narration is a 3rd person narrative but without a primary character. Instead, the narration knows the thoughts and feelings of MOST OR ALL the characters.Example: John felt sad. Susie looked at him, confused if he was sad or mad. Jane felt cold when she saw John's face. Here, we know what everything is thinking, and it's a bit much.Considerations for using this narrative perspective- Can cause whiplash if too many heads are explored at once; create a break between what character x thinks and character y. - Is there a protagonist - at least one someone the reader can identify or care about?- Needs consistency, Character x's thoughts can't be open to us in one part and opaque in another. - This is very hard to achieve consistently throughout the entire book. Most authors break up perspectives by chapter rather than having them all in one scene. So while each chapter is a 3rd person intimate, the entire book has the effect of 3rd person omniscient.Examples of books that use Omniscient narration well- Cormac McCarthy's The Road - This narration briefly jumps into the head of the boy and the man. Because it doesn't jump very deep into either, it works and the reader is emotionally bonded to both of them (critical in a book where everything else is so alienating.) He also employs a lot of dialog, showing what the characters feel rather than telling. 1st person would have been much too immediate, too personal and frankly, too warm for the tone of this book.Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice, of course, does this well. Austen allows us to know the thoughts of Elizabeth, Mr. Bennett and a few others. Like McCarthy, Austen hangs back on rambling, penetrating emotional synopsis, however, and presents the characters mainly in dialog - it feels like we are more closely to Eliza than we really are yet we still understand thoughts of most of the characters.4. OTHER NARRATION OPTIONS2nd person - rarely used, is when a character is talking to about himself. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Se...Omniscient (removed) - Ok, I made this up. But I take it to mean when a narrator is removed from everyone's head, the reader only knows what people think through actions. So there is no narrator (save Shakespeare's Chorus), and you might as well write a drama/play.This answer was how I think about POV in fiction writing, here are some other views (hehe):- Self-Editing for Fiction Writers, a great book written by editors, not authors. Chapter 3 lays out the different options with examples.-Writers Toolbox - How to understand perspective vs. POV and examples of each from an actual writer. 5 Quick Tips for Writing in Multiple Perspectives | WritersDigest.com Writers Digest is usually a good site, this article is about how to write well in multiple perspectives.