 How do you make science content interesting and appealing to people with non-science background?Excellent question. First, your content is fine. You answered the question. Anyone who has ever asked "Why do soldiers . . . " will be pleased with your answer (I would implement Koyel Bandyopadhyay's suggested changes).But what you haven't done, is make it accessible to people who haven't asked this question. That's what you need to work on and what I'll address.If you want to be widely read - or indeed noticed - in the highly-competitive and saturated world of online content you have two options;a) write click-bait crap that gives people fuzzy happy thoughts about themselves and their world OR b) turn insightful, technical content into something more broadly appealing.Option A is as nourishing as white bread. So we'll focus on Option B.1. Don't restrict your answer to the question asked. The question asks about soldiers, bridges - meh. What else is this about? Physics being more powerful than man? Engineering affecting us in ways we can't explain or notice? Military solutions that affect the ways we live our lives? Or perhaps a paradox: When soldiers misstep over bridges they are actually preventing the bridge from collapsing.Reframe it to address a bigger issue.. For example, you'll notice my answer doesn't restrict itself to your question, if I had I'd have just edited your answer directly. Instead, I wrote something hopefully useful for anyone who's wanted to make the technical more broadly appealing.2. Entice readers and make them care using proven techniques of science education. What attracts non-science people to science-related content? Like all people; learning and being entertained. It's your job to teach as they like to learn and entertain as they like to be entertained. It's not hard, use your empathy and reference what works. Here are a few methods:a) Present a problem/phenomenon and debunk/solve it. Like the popular show MythBusters. This show starts with something we've heard about (the episode below debunks the Moon Landing videos) or that sounds unbelievable, and then systematically test the myth.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...This method captures our natural curiosity, curiosity we all had as children but lost as science got more technical and thus exclusionary.You don't need a production budget. When you're writing, lead with the interesting thing. Show a video of soldiers and say "why are they marching like this?" or mention the Millennium Bridge and then tell us (through the rest of the answer) why this happened. Peak our interests and natural inclination to understand that which we do not.b) Lead your audience through the discovery process. Just because I don't have a science background doesn't mean I want to be patronized by those who do. When I'm given a result backed up by some equation, it's not fulfilling and it is off-putting. I want to know why and see it