 A lot of people value uniqueness in a name. There can be several reasons for this, including:Emotional: My kid is so special that I want him/her to have a special name. He/she shouldn't be just like all the other kids.Practical: It's annoying to be one of five Johns in your class. Many parents don't want to put their kids through that. Strategic: Some believe it's beneficial for your career to have a unique name. It's believed (by them) to be easier to make a name for yourself if your name is actually unique.Many are relating to their own experiences in this. For my kids, I prefer names that are unique but easy to say and spell. Why? Because I like that my name is very unique, but the unique spelling is annoying. So that's what I pick names based on. I want a name that's uncommon enough that he'd rarely meet anyone with that name, but still easy to spell and sounds like a normal name.Interestingly, if you listen to what people complain about with these "unique" names, it's often not about uniqueness or spelling or even newness.Uniqueness: Nevaeh was the 65th most common name, and it's was as high as 25 a few years ago. (A comparison point: in 1985, the 65th most common name was Catherine, with Cynthia at #66.)Spelling: Precious is very easy to spell. So is Apple.Newness: Hudson doesn't get nearly so much hate. And yet, it's quite a new name and very "trendy."Know what name is unique and hard to spell? Gayle. There were just 7 Gayle's born in 2014 in the US (and 13 Gail's). You think that's a ridiculous name too, right? Oh. You don't. (You probably just think it's old sounding.)So, what is the real objection here? Why do these names seem weird? Because:You're not a baby. They were weird 20+ years ago, but that doesn't mean they're weird now. The names just seem so... black. Very often, the names that people complain about are ones that are associated with black people. Names with equivalent popularity/trends that aren't "black names" don't get nearly as much hatred. (You might not have been consciously thinking this -- I doubt you were. But I'll bet if you presented people with two equally popular names and with equal trends, one that sounds "black" and one that sounds "WASPy", they'll much prefer the WASPy one.)To summarize: Many people value uniqueness in a name, for a variety of justifiable (and some silly) reasons. Others look down on those choices, especially when it doesn't match their age/racial culture.