 Maybe, maybe not.1. Is this a good question?I can't really comment on the problem as it's not clear what the problem means.Many people have interpreted the problem to mean flipping left and right. In this case, it's a pretty uninteresting trivial problem. It's a bad question, unless maybe early on in the process, because it doesn't really demonstrate much. It's easy. (And I would be somewhat concerned about someone who couldn't do it.)However, the OP later says that it was "to min-max a tree, ascending to descending". I don't really understand what this means. Max Howell on Twitter2. Was he rejected because of this question?It's also unclear why he was rejected. Was he specifically told that he was rejected because he couldn't invert a binary tree on the whiteboard? If he had multiple interviews (which is likely, since he was brought onsite), does he know that it was that interview that led to his rejection? If he did know it was that interview, how does he know why he was rejected? Usually recruiters don't provide that information.Perhaps it had nothing to do with his technical performance and was in fact his communication skills.In my experience, a candidate's assumptions about their performance has no correlation with their actual performance. He might have very strong beliefs about why he was rejected, but unless he was specifically told, I don't really put much faith in it.3. Why was he rejected?If it was his technical performance on this question that led to his rejection, it's still not quite true that he was rejected because he simply "can't invert a binary tree on a whiteboard."Interviews aren't graded on a binary basis. It's not like, "Oops, you can't do X, so I'm going to reject you."More accurately, if it was this interview question that led to his rejection, he was rejected because he performed worse on this question relative to other candidates. That is, other candidates who tackled the same problem with the same interviewer demonstrated stronger problem-solving/coding skills than he did. It's very much feasible to perform better than other candidates on this problem (whatever it is). He just didn't.4. Was he a false negative?Yes, the interview process is flawed. There are false positive (bad candidates who are accepted) and there are false negatives (good candidates who are rejected).Was he a false negative? We don't really know. Maybe. He's certainly done some excellent work, but that doesn't mean he would perform well in Google's environment. Just because you're great in one environment doesn't