 You dont ask someone to be your friend. So why do you ask them to be your mentor?Think about your closest friends  or even your less close friends. When you asked them to be your friend, what were your terms? How often would you hang out? What would you do? What would the expectations be on each side? Oh. You didnt do any of that. You didnt ask them to be your friend. That would be weird. Plus, how would they know if they like you before they know you? Its a sort of ridiculous question to ask or answer.But somehow or other, you just became friends. Maybe you just fell into friendship by hanging around each other enough. Maybe there was something specific that connected you, like having children the same age. Maybe someone introduced you two because you just moved to their city. Somehow or other, nothingness evolved into friendship.Like friendships, mentorships  the ones that actually exist, not the ones that exist in name only  rarely start from a formal request, and certainly not from a near stranger. It doesnt work for mostly the same reasons. Its artificially trying to create a personal relationship. Doesnt work.Moreover, with many mentorship requests (especially those between strangers), the more junior person is often not actually committed to making it work. If youve never sought out my advice before, why do you think youre now going to want to regularly get it? More likely, you suddenly thought Know what I could use? A mentor. Your interest will likely wane.Lets be honest: neither of us are likely to follow through with this mentorship, even if we both intend to.A pretty typical mentorship request:How to Get a Mentor Without Asking for a MentorIf you want someone to be your mentor, dont ask them to be your mentor. Let it build (or collapse) authentically.That doesnt mean you cant seek out mentorships. You can, just like you can friendships. Theyre not all that different. Both are fundamentally personal relationships, even if one is forged over drinks and gossip and another over coffee and advice.To establish a mentorship: Make yourself not a stranger. I recognize the names of people who regularly comment on my Quora posts, who re-share my Facebook posts, and who re-tweet my tweets. If I feel like youre not just a total stranger, Im more likely to help you.Write well. No text speak or sloppy punctuation. I can absolutely forgive grammatical mistakes caused by being a non-native English speaker. But if youre adding spaces before periods or not capitalizing words (or Capitalizing random Words), thats just being lazy and unprofessional. If youre lazy and unprofessional, Im unlikely to try to help you professionally. Why bother, if youre not doing what you can to help yourself?Get to know them -- in person. An online connection just isnt the same. Make it really, really easy for the other person. Find out where they work or live and meet them nearby. Offer to buy them coffee; its not about the money. Its about establishing that you value their time.Be persistent  but only a little. I get a lot of emails and, much as I wish this werent the case, I dont respond to all of them. If this relationship matters to you, follow up. For the most part, I dont refuse to respond to emails. I just havent yet gotten around to yours yet (and I might never).Make them like you. If possible, do something for them. The vast majority of mentorship requests I get are from people who have read one or more of my books but havent posted a review on Amazon. Look, Im an author. Reviews are a big deal. If you tell me you love my book and youre asking for help from me, Im likely to think, If you love it so much, why not post a review? I recognize Im being a little unfair here  the prospective mentee probably hasnt really thought about posting a review. But, still, Im a lot more likely to help those who I feel are willing to help me. Ill feel a bit indebted to you, Im more likely to help you. In fact, if I even see signs that youre generally a nice and helpful person to other people, Im more likely to help you. I prefer to help nice people.If I know you (even a little), if I feel like youre trying to help yourself, if I feel youre a nice person, and especially if I feel a little obligated, Im a lot more likely to chat with you  especially if you make it really easy for me. We can see where things go from there. We dont need to establish terms and conditions, so please dont ask me to be your mentor.