 The design is important to the extent that it affects the ability to easily grab the highlights and other essential content from your resume. Few recruiters would judge you (at least consciously) on the design of your resume, unless design skills are important for your job function.As far as the "CareerCup template": there's nothing special about it. It's just a boring, normal template. It's designed to be able to fit a good amount of content on it and to make it easy to see the key details (job titles, companies, etc). It was right for me. It might not be right for you.I dislike templates for me with my experience which use the entire left column to just have headlines like "EXPERIENCE" and "EDUCATION". Sure, it looks pretty. But it wastes so much space.I dislike templates for me with my experience which don't adequately highlight the company names. My resume highlight was company names. I needed reviewers to be able to skim my resume and say, "Wow, she worked at Microsoft and Apple. Let's interview her." Frankly, that's really all I needed to land any interview. That's probably not your situation though. If your company names actually reflect poorly on you, then you might want to hide your company names and instead highlight your job titles. Formatting like item below is harmful to me but potentially beneficial to you.Software Engineer, Company Name (City, ST), June 2010 - June 2015I don't care if a template includes the cities of each job. Many people needs this in their resume. I didn't.I don't want to highlight specific skills (languages, software, etc), but it does need to be on my resume somewhere.I wanted a one page resume. Short resumes help the highlights jump out. Long resumes end up with some great things pushed to the next page, or just lost in a bunch of other weaker items.So these were (some of) the criteria used to design this: This is what a GOOD resume should look likeIt's an okay template for many people, but there's nothing special about it. It's just a normal, boring template. It was designed to fit my needs. Those probably aren't the same as yours, but they might be close enough. Or not.The major thing you should ask it what the selling points of your experience is. Pick a few things that you think will be the keys to landing an interview. Is it a job title? A company you worked for? A project? An award? Your school? Pick a template that allows those to stand out on your resume.