 As I understand it, the connection you're making is this: a boy being sexually abused and then turning out to be gay indicates that sexual orientation can be changed. Therefore, since it can be changed, we shouldn't oppose "gay conversion therapies."This is misguided on a number of levels.A data point of 1. Many boys being abused wind up being straight too. So finding out an abused boy is gay indicates nothing about how changeable sexual orientation is.Gay conversion therapy is opposed because it's harmful, not because it's ineffective. Gay conversation therapies aren't opposed because they're ineffective. Many things are ineffective yet don't earn the amount of hatred that conversion therapies do. Gay conversion therapy is despised because it's harmful and often done on a child without their consent, during a particularly vulnerable point in their life. We should oppose this even if it did sometimes work, or even if it could potentially works. Being gay isn't harmful.Additionally, it's worth noting that gay conversion therapy presumably -- hopefully -- doesn't operate via sexual abuse. Nor should it. So even if sexual abuse were found to "change" someone's sexual orientation, that doesn't mean that the current gay conversation therapy would work.Correlation doesn't imply causation.Let's suppose that there's a correlation between being sexually abused and being gay. Does this indicate anything about sexual orientation being changeable? No.Boys and girls realize they're gay at different times in life. Many report always knowing that they're "different", and some report knowing that they're gay from a young age (7ish in some cases). Being different makes kids feel vulnerable. Not just feel vulnerable, but be vulnerable. They're often isolated from their peers and scared of their friends and family finding out their secret. Child abusers are sickly drawn to this sort of vulnerability. If gay people are more likely to have been abused at a younger age, the causal direction is very likely the other way around.