 They don't get offended by the words "Green Diwali" but by the hypocrisy of those who urge them.These people leave their car engines on while they enjoy the AC when parked, burn garbage comprising plastics on streets, release toxic industrial gases into the atmosphere without proper treatment and provide 1000s of reasons not to bike or take public transportation while going to work everyday. They constantly honk unnecessarily while driving even when it is a red light or they are near a school or a hospital, and don't provide earmuffs to their employees while they are working everyday near noisy machines. The issue doesn't end here. These people would spend 1000s of dollars to see 4th of July fireworks in the US, or similar things at other events and places.But suddenly the eco-friendly person in them wakes up by the name of Diwali. Diwali becomes the one-step solution to all the environmental problems. People conveniently pass all their anti-environmental misdeeds to it thinking that they would become free from all the blame. It's like doing continuous sins hoping that a bath in Ganga would wash all these away, or actively participating in everyday corruption and transferring all the blame to the government citing various scams.My problem is not by "don't burn crackers" slogans but by these people and the fact that the eco-friendly person in them rises for just one day and then becomes dormant. I am a firm believer in the policies "be the change", "start small" and so on, but when these happen just for the cultural festivals and celebrations, then it feels as if someone is constantly shouting "Don't eat, don't eat!" for every bite I take of my favorite food. This is same as people suddenly realizing that India is suffering from poverty and saying, "That money could have been used to reduce poverty instead of wasting on the Mars mission Mangalyaan"."Green Diwali" means eco-friendly Diwali, not firecrackers-less Diwali. The good thing about Hinduism is that it has the flexibility to evolve with time. Burning traditional firecrackers might have been good a decade ago, but in today's world, they are a major nuisances. So the need of the hour is to learn from the West and evolve Diwali to use green firecrackers.So just don't blame others when you see them celebrating Diwali. Educate them about these new firecrackers and innovate to manufacture these at large scale and low cost. Evolve your consciousness so that you take care of environment in your day-to-day life. Be the change. Wishing you a very happy and prosperous Diwali :)