 Trinity: I know why you're here, Neo. I know what you've been doing... why you hardly sleep, why you live alone, and why night after night, you sit by your computer. You're looking for him. I know because I was once looking for the same thing. And when he found me, he told me I wasn't really looking for him. I was looking for an answer. It's the question that drives us, Neo. It's the question that brought you here. You know the question, just as I did.Neo: What is the Matrix?Trinity: The answer is out there, Neo. It's looking for you, and it will find you if you want it to.- The MatrixIt was a doubt, a question that lead Neo to Morpheus, Amerigo Vespucci to America and JJ Thompson to the electron, and its the same doubt that drives many sages to the Himalayas.There is a very famous saying, "Stay hungry, stay foolish". This reflects the core of any discovery, great or small. It talks about the attitude needed to progress forward - one has to be eager enough to receive new experiences, and a doubt, a question is what that acts as a trigger to the fire of eagerness.But doubt alone cannot lead to ultimate truth. Having a doubt is like having a car - just having it would not take you to the destination; you have to fill-in the fuel, take it to services, and actually drive it. Realization of truth is a journey, a journey which involves various failures, injuries, sometimes you would need to sleep on the ground, with empty stomach, you have to ignore what people think of you and so on. For this, you need energy, dedication and hard-work.Buddha was terribly influenced seeing all the people suffering around him. Questions and doubts like, "Why is there so much suffering", "What is the purpose of life", etc haunted him. But if he had just gone back to his kingdom, would we be talking about a mortal attaining immortality sitting under a banyan tree in the middle of nowhere in India?Doubt is just like a seed - if given proper nourishment, it can grow into a lavish tree with splendid fruits, but if ignored, it just becomes another grain in the sands of time. So it is the combination of doubt and conscious efforts that can lead to the ultimate truth.