 It differs from platform to platform and even on a certain platform there are a certain areas where you can find well mannered, sensible people and there are areas where you can find rude and arrogant *dudes*.For example, on Facebook there is a page named "Humans of New York" (a nice page, you should like it if you haven't already). A guy takes pictures of people from New York and ask them to tell him something about their life. Something small or big, that is significant to them and they have probably not shared it with a lot of people. And the stories people tell him surprises me. They open up with him and share their darkest secrets, their embarrassing mistakes and their beautiful romance. They allow him to write all those things on his page and he does. The most amazing thing is the response from the users in terms of the comments. I have never seen such a supportive crowd anywhere on the internet. Sometimes I read the stories and I feel like people must have written all the crap in their comments because that's what people do on the internet but with this page, it is exactly the opposite.Same does not go with a lot of other pages I follow on Facebook. For example, anything related to Cricket is taken very seriously in India and I can see people posting all kind of shit during major cricket tournaments. They engage with others in pointless debates, use derogatory remarks if the conversation is not proceeding according to their own perception of something.Another thing is religion. People just get too hyper when it comes to religion. Someone from the Pakistan writes a comments on some Indian page, all the Indians are over that guy, saying all kind of crap to him (and vice versa).I originally loved Quora because people here were supportive and rational. They used to reply to my comments sincerely and without taking any offence. I have observed that it is changing with time. Recently, I got some pretty rude comments on my content and I had no idea what should I comment as a reply to them (I am not going to take names here). I don't understand why people find it difficult to digest the fact that different people can have different perspectives.Sometimes I feel like some people do it just because they get a kick from it. They love trolling. They love when people swear at them but actually cannot do any harm to them. Well, I don't think we can do anything about those people.