 As others mentioned, it solely depends on what you are looking for in your life. It's like eating one type of food daily versus trying different cuisine belonging to different cultures all around the world.There is no denying that working in a tech-giant, at least in India, you will have very few opportunities to actually develop something. You will mostly be working on supporting the product or doing minor improvements. India has potential but it is not yet recognized by the west. In a startup, you might have the opportunity to develop things from scratch. But again, there will be disappointments. It might be possible that you work on something for 3 months, prepare an amazing feature which is ready to go live on your website and the CEO or team lead decides to scrap it off. Decisions are usually made on the fly in startups.In India, there are two types of startups. One, which are started by people still studying in college or just out of college. This is a small group of 4 to 5 people and most of the time do not have any idea of what they are doing. They just have an idea to build something and they start doing it without having any plans for the future. Such startups do not survive for more than a year.Another type of startups are the planned ones. These are usually founded by people who have some experience in the industry and they know how to build workflows for projects, how to plan things and how to proceed with the development along with the motivated employees. Failure rate of such startups is comparably low. And in this case, you can have proper guidance from people who have actually worked with the stuff you are building.Tech-giants will pay you a lot. You get complementary stocks, free food, team outings, and a lot more which might not be offered in the startups. But if all these things doesn't matter to you, and the only thing you are looking for is growth in careers, then you should join a planned startup.In India, now even the startups are paying comparable package as that of tech-giants (like Amazon, Google, Adobe, etc.). They do not have the perks offered by leading tech companies, but if you are young, you might not even care about these perks. On the other hand, if you want stability in life, if you want to settle down, then it is best to join one of the tech-giants and plan to work there for a continued period of time.