 It depends on what type of person you are and how you want to spend your time in college. If you want to study then IIIT-A would provide you a perfect environment to reach the sky in the field of academics. If you want to enjoy then IIIT-A will give you wings to fly. I will answer it from a perspective of an average student (yours truly) who studied a bit, played a lot, had fun, made some amazing friends and had a memorable time studying in IIIT-Allahabad.Weekdays - Wake up at 8:30 for 9:00 A.M classes. Compulsory attendance is the most irritating thing about IIIT-A. You have to maintain at least 80% attendance and it is hard to mark proxies in most of the classes which means you have to attend most of them. 9:00 A.M to 6:00 P.M - Theory classes + labs. Well, thanks to the teachers of IIIT-A, most students just sit and play with their cell phones or read novels in class. Most of the teachers do not mind whatever you do in their class unless you start talking to each other. They just want to peacefully deliver a lecture they thoroughly mugged up before coming to the class and go. So people usually do not interrupt them by asking intelligent questions.Another irritating thing about IIIT is the labs. Neither the teacher nor the TAs know anything about any of the practicals you are supposed to do. But they still won't allow you to do something else even if it is related to academics. You have to sit for 3 long hours doing nothing. Labs are a complete waste of time in IIIT-A.Post 6:00 P.M - Evenings are usually fun in IIIT-A. Some people play cricket or football in the ground. Some go to volunteer for Prayaas. Some people just walk on the road in front of the boys hostels or sit on the divider with friends and talk for hours. Couples go to civil lines or roam around the campus until they find a silent corner where they can talk God knows what. People who are irritated by messy mess food turn their heads towards cafeteria. And the people who love to study grab their books and laptop and head towards the lab where they irritate and annoy the shit out of couples who are trying to gossip/fight sitting in the corner of the lab hiding behind their books.Nights are usually spent in the rooms playing games on LAN or sending stupid messages and bhajans on IP messenger. Or just listening to very loud music until the guard comes and asks you to turn down the volume.Between 12 to 3, it's time for post dinner meal and people often head towards H&D or Malik dhaba. It's chai sutta chronicles all over again.On weekends - Weekends are actually boring than weekdays. You wake up somewhere between breakfast and dinner and try to finish the things you planned for the weekend. Again, cricket and football. Pool and table tennis. And then it's the time for civil lines. Everyone wants to go to civil lines on a weekend. People shout and run behind the buses and then book an auto when they miss the bus. Guys ask their girl friends to keep hold of a seat for them in the bus. And then there are people who want to study on weekends as well. So yeah, they pack their laptops in their bags and head towards the lab.Weekends are also utilized to complete the work of copying assignments from the one guy who actually took the trouble to do it on his own and who is not sure whether he did it right or not. Weekends are also utilized for the meetings to discuss the ideas for semester projects but those meetings often end with a long discussion about classmates, professors, director, or even guards.Not to forget, the awesome morning tea with bread and butter in that small shop in the Peepal gaanv.And those tireless visits to the stationary shop on the morning of the project presentation. And the entire group of friends asking for permission to go to washroom during exams so that they can cheat.Well, that's what the life in IIIT-A is all about. There cannot be a single answer for this question as it is highly subjective. But it was definitely fun for me. Especially the last year, when you get placed in the beginning of the year and you have two entire semesters to have fun.P.S - I missed the part about the booze parties and the marijuana marathons because I was never a part of them so I have no idea how to describe them.