 It all depends on how mentally strong you are.First scenario - You wait for the good job and do not get depressed when people around you are getting placed. When that job opportunity arrives, give your 100%. If you get in, well and good. If you didn't, you can think that you were already going for an off campus job so it doesn't matter much. But this is the difficult and uncertain path. What if that "good job opportunity" didn't show up? Companies do not commit. They visit campuses based on their current requirements. Most of the good companies (at least in IT sector) try to visit campus in the beginning of the placement season so that they can filter out the toppers and good candidates (exceptions are always there and some good candidates are definitely left out). So, chances of having a good company visit your campus at a later stage of placement season are less.Also, your surrounding is changing. All your friends are getting placed. Even that guy who used to get less marks than you is placed. The girl you used to make fun of for being dumb? She is also placed. Everyone is happy and partying and making plans to go on long trips with college friends for the last time. And you are sitting in your room, cramming the same shit again and again. Trying hard not to think how much fun they are having. Trust me, it is difficult.Second scenario - You take a mediocre job (which is not your dream job). This will give you some satisfaction and a lot of confidence. You still have to work hard but at least now you will have a back up plan. You will not be afraid anymore. You can even take out time from your studies to have fun with your friends. If you are good in what you do, then you can easily get a job off campus. From the wordings of the question, I am pretty sure you are an IT engineer. There is currently a lot of boom in the IT sector and companies are going gung-ho about hiring bright people.Also, this opens up a few other opportunities for you as well. Now you can also think if you want to go for higher studies or not. Now that you would have a job, you can search for some good internships that can give your resume a real boost up. You can actually take a deep breath and think about your options.If I were at your place, I would have gone for the second choice. But as I said earlier, it differs from person to person. If you are mentally strong and adamant and you think that your surrounding and the pressure won't affect you or your decisions then you should surely go for the first choice. That way, even if you fail, the worst case scenario would be that you fallback to the second choice.