 Disclaimer - The answer below are my personal views.There are a lot of benefits of working in Adobe India. First of all, I do not have any experience in working with any other firm in India so I am not sure if these benefits are provided by other firms as well.1. Work life balance - This is the first thing that comes to mind when I think of Adobe. You get ample amount of time to do things you like other than work. You can easily follow your hobbies and get the work done at the same time. Adobe has a gym, four table tennis tables, two foosball tables, a lawn tennis court, a basketball court, 7 cricket teams, an informal guitar club, a toastmasters club, and so much more of the fun stuff. And these things are not for namesake. People actively participate in all these activities and they do not have to work overnight to compensate for the time they spent doing these things.2. Awesome food - If you are a north Indian and a foodie, Adobe is going to be a haven for you. They have a sodexo which prepares delicious food and snacks. The best part is that both lunch and dinner are free of cost (dinner is generally not free of cost in most of the firms in India). Breakfast and evening snacks are available at minimal price. They do not have a fixed menu so even if there will be a repetition in what you eat, you will certainly not get bored with the monotonicity of the food. They also have a juice center and street food stall (golgappa, chaat, etc.)3. Opportunity to work with some of the great minds in country - Adobe has some very good engineers. This is true that just like most other product based companies, the work will be repetitive after you have worked here for a certain amount of time but you will get to learn new things from the people who have decades of experience working in the industry.4. Employee stock plan - Also know as ESPP. Adobe let its employees purchase Adobe's stocks every six months by setting aside up to 25% of their payroll. The price at the start and the end of six months is noted and stocks are given at 15% percent discount on whatever price is less. So you are definitely gonna get a profit of 15% even if the value of the shares goes down in those 6 months. The lock in price (which is set at the time of enrollment in ESPP) is valid for 24 months and hence this plan is very profitable in the long run. I have not seen a lot of firms in industry that has such a plan.Apart from these, there are all the other benefits like frequent health check-ups, celebrations on account of major festivals, fun activities for your kids and family members, insurance plans and all the regular stuff that is provided by most of the companies.Overall, I see Adobe India as a great employer. And I am glad to be a part of this firm.