 Is there a way I can give it a 3.5 stars on Quora?Well, I have mixed feelings about this episode. Actually, the entire show is getting a little bit repetitive? It feels like we are not going anywhere. The group wanders, meets another group of bad guys, kill them, one of the not-so-major character of the group also get killed, the group of bad guys is not completely destroyed and the few left, retaliate, our group once again fight them and kill them all.The same thing happened in this entire season so far. In the end, the guys at the hospital are just another group of bad people (because of circumstances may be) who crossed paths with Rick's group and both sides witnessed a lot of bloodshed. And I also don't think that this entire hospital scene is over. I am pretty sure our group is gonna come back here in the future.But as I have said again and again, the acting of all the characters in the show is commendable. Rick, Daryl, Michonne, Carl, all of them are so deep in their characters that it almost comes naturally to them. I loved how Rick didn't give a second thought before killing Bob (the cop who escaped in the last episode). He might not have done the same thing in season 1 or season 2. I also loved all those emotions that flowed in the end. Daryl crying, probably for the first on the show, was heart-touching. Beth's death was not so unexpected as I was pretty sure that someone's definitely gonna die during this entire "deal" and the chances of Beth being that someone were sky high.Even though it is almost easy to guess what is gonna happen next in the show, the show has not lost its charm for me. The element of surprise is still there. Little, but there. And of course, the thrill that you experience in the moment of action makes this show one of the best shows currently on air. But I would really love if the makers of the show can give us something different. For example, I know that the group is gonna spend the next half of the season wandering on roads fighting zombies and looking for a safe haven. I am definitely ready for a surprise. Please do something more eventful.