 Getting internships during winters is really tough in India because most engineering colleges have holidays for not more than a month during winters. So getting an internship in a firm is almost not possible because it is highly unlikely that a student can make a positive impact on the firm in just a month's time.But it is possible to get internships in prestigious Indian colleges like IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi and so on. But again, it solely depends on the need of professors. If they are working on some project and they really need some people to help them in those projects then they may provide you an internship at a very low stipend. But stipend doesn't matter much in college internships. You get to learn a lot doing such internships.You will have to contact professors directly over email and have to convince them that you are a good candidate suitable to work on their ongoing project (if any). So again, chances are very slim.What I did during my winter vacations after 3rd semester is, I joined Winter school in IIIT-Delhi. This is an amazing program that is done in collaboration with Carnegie Mellon University. They select around 50 people from all over India and there were people from IIT Kanpur, IIT Delhi, IIT Bombay, IIIT Hyderabad, BITS Pilani, VIT, MIT, etc.This is a 15 day program and is divided into three tracks. The tracks are handled by the teachers from CMU and IIIT Delhi. There are lectures by professors from prestigious colleges in India. You also make a project under the guidance of your track instructor. The exercise is both knowledgeable and fun.But you have to pay for this winter school. The fees was minimal at our time and I guess we paid around 6000 rupees which included fooding and lodging as well. If you live in Delhi or have relatives here then you have to pay just for the course. But trust me, it's worth it.Here is the link of the school which held in 2011 - Internship Program in Technology Supported Education. I was unable to find the link for 2015 program but I think it should be easily searchable.