 Most of the major cities in the country have stadiums for table tennis where there are coaches to train you. I know at least about Jaipur, Jodhpur, Delhi, Chennai and various cities in West Bengal where you can find amazing table tennis coaches who can train you very well and get you ready to represent India at international level (of course, it depends on how dedicated you are).But if I have to select just one coaching institute then I would most definitely go for Petroleum Sports Promotion Board's table tennis academy in Ajmer. It is one of its kind and is considered as a Mecca for table tennis players in India. They conduct a trial every year where they invite applications from top players all over India (in cadet and sub-junior categories). The number of selections depend on the number of free slots which changes every year.The perks of being in PSPB academy Ajmer - You are trained by two coaches. One, Chinese and the other, a local Indian coach. Both these coaches are international players themselves with great experience of coaching over the years.You get to play with the finest table tennis players in India. Everyone knows that in order to improve your game you need to play with people who are better players than you. In fact, a lot of good Indian table tennis players, including A. Amal Raj, have spent their early days in Ajmer academy. You get to play in one of the finest table tennis stadiums in India. Ajmer table tennis stadium is HUGE, with 12 table tennis tables and a seating capacity of more than a 100 people. You get free boarding, lodging and schooling. They will even bear the expenses of your tuition and other miscellaneous activities. All you will have to focus on is table tennis. You will have to play at least 6 hours in a day (morning and evening).You get to play all major tournaments in India. PSPB team is also invited for Zonal tournaments.So if you are passionate about table tennis and is of right age then practice hard and get into the academy. Even if you are more than 14 years of age, try to spare a month or two and go and train in Ajmer. If you are a decent player, they might even allow you to play with PSPB players and train with their coach.