 Excerpted from my answer to a similar question Shefaly Yogendra's answer to How can I overcome loneliness as a foreigner?I empathise with your experience. I have been a "foreigner" in many countries but several times in my own vast diverse complicated country too. I write the following based on my experience. Are you there by choice? Then you are in luck. You are in control of what you choose to experience and how, without needing to spend energy on blaming someone else for dumping you in what looks like an alien space. As a child I moved once from the city I had lived in for a decade to another and resented the loss of my friends, my neighbours, my familiarity with public transport and directions, and oddly enough landmarks and historical buildings I had scarcely paid attention to. But as an adult I moved often and of my own volition. And my experience from childhood helped me design my own experience each time I moved to a new place. Identify and map your context. Are you a student? Well you have a readymade context of your department, your school and your university. Did you move for work? Your workplace provides you instantly with a social milieu which you may choose to like or not but it is there to explore. Observe your surroundings. Do you see public houses, or other spaces that welcome everyone? Find out more about them. Note their timings and their location with respect to your schedule and location. Identify where your interests coincide with your context both the given one and the one your surroundings outside school or work provide you. Explore for some time. Hang out with diverse groups, attend random talks in new spaces, see historical and artistic artefacts, go to a pub or cafe alone and chitchat with them. All this will give you a lot of choice, which isn't a bad thing for a lonely foreigner! You can now start to commit time to a few choice activities over others. Your repeat appearance will help you make new acquaintances and find a sense of belonging and direction. Finding one or both helps feel less like a foreigner which is the primary source of the loneliness you are experiencing. What if you didn't get there voluntarily? What if you don't have a prefab social context of school or work? Well you can still start with observing and exploring your neighbourhood and the city. The same sort of "social algorithm" as outlined earlier can help.