 I was done by 28 too. I had run huge budgets, profit centres and new country offices I opened for the large corporate firm I worked for then. So I understand how you feel. Here is what I did. A review of your own life's possibilities will yield different pathways for you. Diversified work by diversifying clients - I did a third of my work in academic research, a third with non profits, a third with corporate clients (later adding regulators and policy makers and politicians who influence and make policy to the list); Developed new skills through stretch at work and through going to graduate school again while continuing to work - I got my second Master's and a PhD both of which helped me build better networks, new clients and new lines of work, now also with investors. I also learnt a ton about nutrition as part of my research and totally rejigged my eating; Became much fitter - I have written elsewhere about my good habits begun early. I consolidated. I worked for years with a trainer who had trained Gwen Stefani (!) who is very keen on right technique and I am still grateful to him. I took up Pilates and recently Yoga to add to my changing fitness needs; Wrote a lot of stuff - I have been blogging for almost 12 years now, which makes me a late adopter of sorts! But writing clarifies things even to us and I have put it to good use to get new clients, to keep clients informed and to get better at my own work and thinking;Learnt new skills - baking being one of them even though I don't eat cakes, gardening to grow things I can pluck and eat is another. I am an active MOOC student and learner, as well as observer-teacher because I also teach in my country of birth now; See things that are natural or manmade - in other words, travel some in an immersive mode. Nothing better to get rid of that feeling of "feeling done" than to recognise how little we have actually done. You might live another 50-60 years. This world is truly your oyster. Find wonder inside you, be curious, and keep exploring.Also see Shefaly Yogendra's answer to What are some things a single woman should accomplish before age 40?