 Being an ethnic or cultural group in minority is, for many, a constant exploration in identity as I have written in Shefaly Yogendra's answer to What are your thoughts on creative works that depend on tropes of a particular group when they are written and produced by members of that group?Feeling joy or shame seeing someone else's behaviour is also about shared identity, beyond national or cultural or ethnic identity, as I wrote in Shefaly Yogendra's answer to Why do some of us feel embarrassed for behaviours or opinions that we had nothing to do with?As an Indian expat, I am more than aware of the hatred often brought our (!) way by Indians living in India who alternately see us as traitors, smug buggers, aspirational persons and a host of other, sometimes unprintable, things. Why, we may be the only group with their own formal label - NRI, officially "non resident Indian" but in recent times of resurgent national pride in India, sarcastically "not required Indian". It is safe to see that artefact as arising from a desire of the Indian community both in India and abroad to hold on to their shared identity and roots. In a co-authored article, the two of us make the point about being unwitting ambassadors of our birth nations: http://www.livemint.com/Opinion/... It is all very good when we hear of Kalpana Chawla, Sanjay Gupta etc but mention Bobby Jindal and Rajat Gupta and watch the squirm! Is it universal? I don't know. I have only anecdata but that covers Scots, Welsh, Italians, French and Indian friends. An amusing observation I make is that all these groups are quite proud and feel they are culturally superior to the society and people they are having to share their space with. But with more and more people being globally mobile, growing up and living in many cultures and countries, there is growing comfort with identifying with more than one identity. That is when it starts getting really interesting.Once I was leaving India when a test match series between India and England was on. The passport control guy asked me, "so Madam, now that you are British by passport, whom do you support - India or England?". Cricket loyalty is a big test of one's real, deep loyalties in both countries, you see. I had to tell him the truth, "Sir, perhaps you want to consider that it is now possible for me to be shamed by not one but two teams playing badly and losing what they could have excelled at!" For a second he looked at me, then said, "We meet many people here but very few are at home everywhere.", smiled then sent me on my way.