 Very unlikely. "The personal is political", wrote Carol Hanisch. Daily choices we make are a reflection of our personal politics. Opposing views can and often do cause clashes in quotidian matters. Our political views can and do shape our lives significantly eg a racist person may not have friends of another race while a non-racist may do; now imagine them being married and the latter bringing around all their friends! For instance, a conservative person may have a belief in old fashioned gendered roles and hence division of labour, while a liberal person may see the relationship as more of an equal partnership with both persons doing their bit in the house and at work for their personal growth. This can cause much disagreement about whose job is what, and whether there is one bread earner and one house keeper and so on. Earlier this year, I was at a dinner with some people, where a couple was also present. The wife is a staunch republican with a deep hatred of Obama not without overt racism while the husband is a democrat and supports Obama's policies. After a drink too many, the wife was loudly discussing their medical problems and bills and cost of insurance, while the husband, visibly embarrassed, was trying to tell her that as an entrepreneur in early days he would be without any insurance without Obamacare. She got into a loud argument with me about the NHS and the state of a civilised nation having to support people who "put nothing back". Clearly she thinks she will always be able-bodied and young, and never in need of support. You could say I am contradicting my own answer by telling you about a long married couple with polar opposite politics. But I really am not. It is a disharmonious relationship which is sustaining because they cannot afford to go their own ways. Hardly a union worth having! Not just opposing views but political apathy in one person can also be a challenge in a relationship where the other person is politically alert, aware and committed. A 1970s film, The Way We Were, featuring Barbra Streisand and Robert Redford, revolved around this very theme. While they were both attracted to each other, and did marry, her politically being very committed and his apathy did rend them apart. More about the film here: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/... Great question!