 Quora with its relatively small and homogeneous team, a strategic focus on product over people, and its preference for machine learning as the moderation method of choice (development aided by a small team of human volunteers who are trusted reporters; it is a small number and a smidgen more diverse than the management team), is trying to strike a tricky balance between becoming the go-to knowledge community and being a safe place for its users, who create the content to answer such curiosities, as you describe, which come in thick and fast, repeatedly, often asked anonymously. As an example, please take a look at the "Why, Women?" blog that logs the odd questions that can only come from a place of believing women are an alien species. The issue of public safety and addressing systemic axiological issues aren't the only problems the community faces. People ask questions about suicide here (the questions get tagged with helpline info). A large number of users ask about where they can download or stream - for free of course - creative content such as books or films, and those questions are allowed to stand too (I raise this issue often enough because answering such questions is aiding and abetting). To me those are problematic questions too even if we feel we are removed from their impact. So now with the long background, to your question. There are two parts to the issue you raise -- letting a dispassionate discourse on prejudices stand so as to serve the cause of public safety, and letting Quora be a safe place for those minorities who are often stereotyped or harassed due to prejudices. I would like the former to be the focus of a knowledge community too but my observation as a very early user here (and I have seen variants of approaches trialled, adopted or discarded) is that Quora is choosing to focus on the latter (although it is far from doing a good job on PoC, LGBTQ, native Americans, disabled persons) over the former. In other words, this community over the world at large. This is, of course, an oversimplified version of the choices that are on the table. But frankly as a WoC, I care more about the constant assault that minorities experience over the repeated burden of educating those, who are wilfully uneducable and are aggressively committed to their prejudices. So I know which choice I would make. Systemically, what I would like to see happen is:1. Such questions should not be allowed to be asked anonymously. When a name is attached, an OP is forced to word the question carefully. His or her edit record is available for us all to see if the rap sheet is clean or if this is a habitual offender. If the OP feels, he or she can defend his or her intent in question details. Many of us are more likely to answer the questions if we don't feel it is a troll. 2. The "snowflake" syndrome needs to be quashed not encouraged. In other words, OP of such questions needs to look more at older questions -- if indeed he or she is coming from the genuine intent of learning rather than idle trolling -- before posting. I am cautiously optimistic about the new feature "ask Quora" just rolled out last week. 3. Instead of letting such questions stand and emerge repeatedly, they should be directed to a repository of the best answers on the matter. To some extent, the merge feature allows that but it still depends on us human users. This should be automate-able with some effort.