 Tl; dr: Tell your story with all its richness and layers and depth, without getting caught up in announcing its length upfront. If the story is interesting and you are regaling to the right audience, the "timespan verbiage" does not matter. I can think of several gentlemen and ladies, whom I count as friends and mentors, and whose careers have exceeded 30 years. All of them are still working and being paid handsomely. None of them disavows their experience and the years, or uses "timespan verbiage". One gentleman has spent 5 decades in private equity and needs virtually no introduction. Another has amassed such deep experience of PSU and NGO sectors that he is turning away work constantly. One has worked as a Bay Area lawyer for over 30 years, covering many sectors in defence, tech and biotech, and nothing passes her by. None of them uses social networks, or has a web footprint where random people can find them. They do however use technology but as their slave not their master. Experience acquired over 30+ years of meaningful work is not easily reduced to soundbites or words that may pass "keyword" filters. On the flip side, such experience is not likely to be valued by those, who bring narrow criteria of age and associated prejudices to the process of engaging with such hugely experienced people. None of these persons sends a CV or a written communique to anyone, outlining their own wonderfulness. The younger people, whom they mentor and advise, such as me, do the job for them. We bring ideas and opportunities to them, for feedback, validation, advice and sometimes a request to engage in a formal capacity. I learnt from them and I am practising it as I myself get nearer the 25-year experience mark, that beyond a point, the CV matters but a little, but what matters more is the people, who are in your network and who are your true social capital. These people are the true champions of your brand, your experience, your wonderfulness as a mentor and advisor and executive. My glib-sounding advice here would be if some one is judging you instantly as being pass just because of your age, you are talking to the wrong people. If you find the right people, they will engage with you, converse with you, listen to your story with its richness and layers and depth, without getting caught up in the its length upfront, identify common ground, and ask to work with you where your skills and experience meet their needs. Hope this helps. Related answer that may interest you: Should I take career advice from someone much older when the job landscape has changed drastically since they have been actively job searching, especially as a new grad?