 The answer below addresses the headline question, and not the question details which have been addressed by a couple other answers. The human pre-frontal cortex - which regulates impulse control, attention, logical and organised thinking, risk management etc - doesn't develop till a child is much older (and continues to develop till around age 25). This means that kids are operating from a relatively primitively equipped brain - namely, in neonate and younger kids, the reptilian brain (which helps basic functions such as breathing, eating, pooping, sleeping etc) and in older kids, the limbic brain (which starts developing after birth, and is essential for survival hence feelings like fear, pleasure, danger monitoring etc). Setting aside for now the idea that somehow an 18yo is all grown-up and able to make serious adult decisions, when his or her brain is still developing the most important capabilities, we return to why kids are cruel. Given their brain development, kids operate mainly on basic impulses and on a fairly basic idea of survival. Add to this the environment the kid is growing up in, and some impulses may be sharpened or dulled. A child growing up in a traumatising environment of abuse and violence and inattentive caregivers, will probably have a highly attuned danger sensor, and some of them may have a self preservation streak that may look cruel to an adult's eyes. All this of course are developmental layers atop the basic temperament of a child. Some kids are calm, friendly, peaceful, others may be aggressive or violent. Yet others may be peacemakers or self contained. Not all kids with a tough childhood grow up the same way. You may find answers on two questions here very instructive. Why do some people who were bullied as children grow up to bully others?What are bullied children like as adults? A friend of mine recently shared a poem that I find both terrific and terrifying: KEEPING QUIETby Robert BlyA friend of mine says that every warIs some violence in childhood coming closer.Those whoppings in the shed werent a joke.On the whole, it didnt turn out well.This has been going on for thousandsOf years! It doesnt change. SomethingHappened to me, and I cant tellAnyone, so it will happen to you.