 Late edit -- the question detail "I should add that mathematics is my big passion and that I therefore fond the mathematics course at Cambridge very interesting." was added after the answer below was written. The answer still holds for the main question which is otherwise too reliant on question details, which is not in line with Quora policy. Answer: Really, no one can give you a firm or reliable answer to this question. It is hugely subjective. But I will try. In your question and details, you omit to mention the degree or course you may be applying to, while you have told us several notable biographical achievements. If I were a person reading your application, I would chalk that missing detail down to "an inability to identity crucial issues, which may need addressing". If you are applying for a graduate degree, that inability is going to be a significant problem. Cambridge graduate degrees require, indeed presume, students to have a high degree of meta-intelligence and self motivation in studying as much or as little as they wish to. If you are applying for an undergraduate degree, be aware that unlike American universities, Cambridge makes very little room for exploring what you may want to study at the undergraduate level and you will have to choose upfront what you wish to study. Reading through the question details, I can infer reasonably you wish to study maths and I will assume that as an undergraduate course. If you are indeed applying to study maths at undergraduate level, then you likely already know that Cambridge maths tripos is one of the toughest things to get into and subsequently pass in its field. You are up against some stellar applicants, whose nationality is of no great importance to Cambridge maths department, which is more keen to ensure its reputation remains intact, some of which is ensured by picking only the best students that apply. In the absence of any detail about which degree or course, it is also difficult to assess the relevance and impact of your achievements on your application and your chances. For instance, with all my prior graduate degrees in different disciplines all excluding biology, if I wanted to apply straight away to a Master's in neurology, I would get a thumbs-down, as it is a degree in a subject that needs much prior knowledge. So it is anybody's guess what the final outcome may be. You have a stellar list of accomplishments but do be aware, they will be weighed against some of the world's best applicants, many of whom may have overcome great hardships in their not-so-wealthy (relative to Sweden) countries. At the undergraduate level, the admissions committees also conduct personal interviews, which are about the person and what the person brings to the department and the college more than the list of achievements on the CV. I wish you all the best.