 Do you know what you should've done when she was giving you hints? I think you should've asked her if she liked you and was indicating a relationship, if she would've said yes, you could have told her exactly what you told us (that you had prior commitments). You could've asked her to wait, and none of this would've happened. Usually, the biggest mistakes we make are all communication related. I'm not trying to discourage you by saying this, but I want you to understand this for your future.Look, she's happy with her boyfriend and you're happy for her, even though you're miserable. If you keep letting her control your life, you will never move on. If she keeps staying in your heart, you won't have room for another person (that might be your true love). Three years is a long time, you need to move on. You need to go out there, live your life, hang out with your friends, and you need to be productive. She deserves to be happy, but so do you!Try meeting new people, try engaging in thought provoking conversations, try different cuisines, go traveling, basically just do something different and adventurous. Think of it this way; after getting in another relationship, you might not have the time or the resources to participate in different things because of a relationship. You have that time now! Go out there and do something different. These different experiences will help you grow and mature as a person.Look, if you don't want to do all that, then join a gym. Working out can do wonders for your emotional and pyshical health. A good physique can give you major confidence, and lifting heavy weights can be a good stress buster. An added bonus: A good physique will definitely help you in the ladies department. Joining the gym and working out may just help you make friends, and possibly help you find a companion.All of these things are destractions to help you forget about that girl. If you really want to forget her, implement some of the things I've said (and other people will say). Other than that, it's really upto you. If you really want to forget her, you need to work on it. Time will help heal wounds, but those urges to talk and wish for more, need to stop.Hopefully this helps. Good luck, OP.