 When you become wheelchair bound, you learn to value each and every aspect of life. Initially, I couldn't breathe on my own. I had a tracheostomy done, which, in a nutshell, is when they pass a device through the vocal box to help someone breathe. I couldn't speak, they had to put a small "plug" on to the trache to help me talk, even then my voice was barely audible. You learn to appreciate oxygen. We really don't think about breathing, but when you have to have a machine to help you breathe, you realize how important it really is.I remember when I was in the ICU that they'd put me on trials for breathing. I would pass in and out of consciousness because I felt that I couldn't get enough oxygen, when that really wasn't the case. The doctors and nurses, to whom I'm really grateful for, would monitor my oxygen levels, to make sure I was getting enough oxygen. At that time, I remember I'd try to call the doctors and nurses to put me back on the machine because it was incredibly strenuous to breathe. They couldn't hear me, because I was paralyzed from the neck down and my lungs were incredibly weak, my voice was not audible. Gradually, I learned how to breathe without a machine and they removed the trache after a month, which is really painful.Also, during the same time period, I realized I couldn't move my arms or legs. I was a vegetable. I would try to move my limbs, but I couldn't. I would put so much effort into my mobility that it emotionally and mentally drained me. Let me tell you something, we don't think about moving our muscles, they just work. When you're paralyzed, it's incredibly difficult. Try imaging this: You have sleep paralysis, and you're having a nightmare, but you can't move. The monster is going to eat you, but you're stuck, immobile. You do not realize how difficult it is. I don't think anyone can understand or realize that.After getting discharged from the hospital, I couldn't sit by myself without support. I couldn't feed myself, I couldn't even use the bathroom because my muscles weren't functioning. My mom and dad had to feed me. I didn't even have sensation in my stomach. I didn't know when I was hungry or when I was full. On several instances, I overate. I ate so much more than I regularly eat. Being a foodie, I can't understand how I didn't know when to eat and when not to eat. On one instance, I ate over thirteen roits (basically wheat tortillas). My mom kept making them and my dad kept feeding me until he realized that I don't normally eat that much. From that point on, my mom made a strict schedule for when I'd eat and when I wouldn't. I was on portion control. I didn't know if I was starving or if I was full, like I mentioned before. I don't think anyone can realize how it feels to not know when you're hungry or when you're not. Gradually, I gained that sensation back and I have a normal diet now.Another thing that most people take for granted is the ability to use the restroom. I have a catheter, a tube that's inserted into my urethra which connects to my bladder. I have to change that tube every fifteen days because I could get a severe infection that could damage my kidneys. You do not understand how painful it is. Along with that, imagine how embarrassing it is. People, if you have a normal functioning bladder, please don't ever take that for granted.In conclusion, please do not take your body parts for granted whatsoever. If you're healthy, learn to take care of yourself. Go to the gym, work out, get stronger. Appreciate what you have and stop worrying about minuscule things. Be thankful for what you have and never let a day go without thanking your body for being healthy.