 You won't believe anything anyone says until you believe in yourself. I follow one rule in my life: If I can fix it, I don't have any reason to worry. If I can't fix it, why should I worry? Look, I don't know what your problems are, but you need to adapt this way of thinking. If you truly know that you can't fix whatever it is that you're getting paranoid over, then stop thinking about it. Every bad situation will always have a positive ending. Even if you don't believe in that, it's true. Whatever you're going through, will have a good outcome for you. You really should believe that.I'll give you my example: When I came out of my coma and I realized I was paralyzed from the neck down, I seriously lost all hope. I didn't think life could get worse. I mean, I didn't have an education, I was a living corpse, I didn't have friends, nor did my immediate family care. I kept worrying about my future too.Then my dad told me something, "If you keep worrying ahout something that hasn't happened, how can you focus on what's happening right now? Stop being scared and do what you have to do. Don't give a fuck about the future." (Those were his exact words).That's exactly what I did. Look where I am now, I'm being featured in newspapers, I was in the news, I did an ad shoot earlier this year, a couple of photo shoots, I perfomed in front of Zayed Khan and Jackky Bhagnani on a wheelchair, I'm Miss Wheelchair India runner up 2014, and I have almost 43k followers on Quora. I never expected this! I seriously never did! I always thought I'd do nothing in my life until my dad spoke to me.Life has a way of fucking everything up, teaching you lessons during your struggle, and then making it even better than before. You need to forget about the future and live in the present. Try making your present better, with that, you'll get a better future.I truly believe that whatever we put out into the world, it comes back to us. Try thinking and saying good and positive things, see how this changes your life. It's helped me drastically, I'm pretty sure it will help you too.Good luck, OP.