 Yesterday I was at the mall when I saw a Tarot Card booth that was owned by two ladies. Well, I sat down and she told me to pick five cards and to ask a question. I asked, "When will I start walking?" She told me that she won't be able to give me the exact time but she'll give me whatever message the cards show her. I picked out five cards and almost immediately she said, "You worry too much. You need to stop thinking and worrying about your future. Sometimes things are meant to happen more quickly, but by doubting yourself and thinking too many negative things  like asking yourself 'what if' questions, you're promoting negative energy to enter your heart and mind, which causes the positivity to lessen and eventually, it disappears." Look, I don't believe in fortune telling, palmistry, astrology, and other forms of fortune reading. I believe in hard work that comes from deep within the heart. I'll tell you something though, her words hit me like stone. I felt that she was extremely right. I do think too much about my future, especially about my legs. You won't believe this, but I do ask myself, "What if I don't walk? What will I do? How will I survive?" Shocking, right?Guess what I did today? I went to therapy, and from this morning, I stopped thinking about my future and my legs. After therapy, I realized what kind of positive effect it had on me. I had improvements. My muscles and genuine movements had improved. I don't know if this is coincidence or if it's actually because I stopped thinking about myself and my legs.Why am I telling you this? Well, I think you should stop thinking about the future. Everyone has some mishaps in their life, whether it be because of education or because of money. You cannot keep thinking about that specific mishap and how it might affect your future; because it will affect your future, but for the better. Start thinking of other options for your career, you might not be destined to do what you initially planned on. You should always have a backup plan, even for your backup plan. I think that's incredibly important. You think you're not fit? Why don't you start going to the gym? The gym will help you vent your frustration and it'll help you get fit and you'll lose some weight. Along with that, start devoting your time to things that are important to you, hang out with your friends, and try looking at different options to help you with your future.In short: Stop worrying so much and try living your life without thinking too much about your future.