 Just this year when I went to Zimbabwe for my boyfriend's sister's wedding, I was shunned by all of the kids my age. Apparently some of the elders were talking trash about me to his parents. They were saying stuff about me being on a wheelchair, about me influencing Dhyaan (my boyfriend) to leave his parents, and other bad stuff which I don't want to share. Dhyaan's cousins started creating drama too. They'd leave me alone and go out for lunch, they'd play games and wouldn't include me  just really childish things. Dhyaan wouldn't be home most of the day because he was still working during the three weeks when I was there (they distanced the music night/engagement, mehendi night, wedding, and reception into three weeks, so the guests coming from out of the country could stay around and go sightseeing).When Dhyaan would come home, he'd see me sitting all alone on the sofa, playing with my phone. His parents were also influenced, unfortunately, and were acting as if they didn't care. Keep in mind, this was my first time meeting them, they shouldn't have secluded me, but I don't blame them (I'll explain more later). Dhyaan also heard about all the shunning and rumors, he took action on it, but silently.He would come sit next to me on the sofa, hold my hand, and he'd kiss my cheek, in front of his whole family. He'd talk to me about his day, and then we'd go outside for a walk, across the street and just sit on the benches and relax in the cold night air. Sometimes we'd go out to his backyard and we'd play with his dog, Milo. He made it known to his family that their words made no difference to him, he was proud to have me (and vice versa), and he loved me.Coming to his parents; the wedding was a very stressful time for them, there was a huge water and electricity problem, on top of that almost everyone got sick with a virus, which turned out to be Typhoid (but thankfully we all had our vaccinations for Typhoid, but still managed to get a cold and fever)  the bride was in bad shape, and as you can imagine, some members of the family were pinpointing his parents about me. His parents reacted like normal people, and I don't blame them. They apologized to me and my mom, and everything's perfect now. Most of you may not know this, but Dhyaan and I met online. Dhyaan's father chose me for him, and that's why Dhyaan and I are together. His parents and I get along well  better than before, and we speak whenever possible. Because of this incident, the relationship between us has become stronger.I was very reluctant to share this story, because it makes Dhyaan's parents look bad, but they really aren't. Anyone can become confused and can get quickly influenced when they're under stress. I request you to not say anything mean about his parents, because I care for them and they care for me. They aren't in the wrong.