 A couple of weeks ago I had gone out partying for my birthday (it was an early celebration). Well, my friends and one of my cool uncles had come along (my mom didn't come). We went out to a lounge and he was forcing me to drink (because it was my birthday and according to him, I should be sloshed). I told him to call my mom to tell her that I'll be drinking (the place was loud and wasn't extremely accessible for me to leave to make the call). He told me not to worry because he'd handle it. Guess what immature, stupid Virali did? I trusted him and I drank, a lot. I usually don't drink more than I can handle, but my uncle kept insisting, so I did.Well, I blacked out, the last thing I remember is that we were dancing, and then nothing. The next morning, I wake up and see my mom staring at me. She started yelling, saying how I was immature and irresponsible (which I agreed to). I told her the story and she called my uncle  he lied. He said that I was already drunk before I met him, which wasn't the case. As you can imagine, things got pretty heated at home. That's when my dad called.Dad - "Beta, what happened last night? How much did you drink?"Me - (I told him the whole story) "Dad, I'm so sorry, I promise it won't happen again. Whatever he was saying was lies." (I kept going on and on)Dad - "It's okay, I believe you. Relax, it happens sometimes. You don't have to apologize as long as you've realized your mistake. A word of advice, dear: Don't trust anyone, especially if you're drinking. People will take advantage of the situation and they will manipulate words in order to make you look bad. Just understand that."Me - "Okay dad, I'll make sure of that. Thanks, pops. I love you."Dad - "I love you too sweets. Here, let me talk to your mom, she must be fuming."I gave my mom the phone and he calmed her down and spoke to her. She suddenly relaxed and gave me the same advice my dad did. I don't blame my mom for her reaction, someone could've taken a physical advantage of me in my passed out state. I realized where I was wrong and promised her and my father that I'd never do it again.Since I was born, my father has always been a workaholic, I wasn't ever technically raised by him. Yes, he'd always give me words of wisdom and would help me through issues, but my mom mostly raised me. My dad would always be the saviour whenever I was wrong. My mom has a bad temper, while my dad is really relaxed and cool headed. He's the one who'll calm my mom down, help me understand my mistake, and will look at a situation in a different prespective.