 When I was young, I wanted to be famous; I didn't care how, but I wanted to be famous. There really wasn't a reason for it, except that it seemed really cool! A couple of years later, I was approached by a teacher from Barbizon Modeling and Acting school, and they encouraged me to pursue modeling and acting because I had a unique face. I suppose it was just a marketing tactic, but I fell for it. I went ahead and paid the fees for the two month course and received lessons on how to apply makeup, style hair, how to behave, and how to pose in front of a camera.Due to the courses, the participants of the course had an opportunity to meet scouts; I met a scout and I got selected for a soda ad. I was given a date to sign the contract. As you can imagine, I was ecstatic. When the day came to sign the contract, I was in the hospital fighting for my life. I'm sure everyone knows what happened next. I became wheelchair bound and I was paralyzed from the neck down.At that moment, I lost all hope that I'd ever be famous. I didn't think I'd do anything worthwhile in my life. After a couple of years, I started working on my confidence. Gradually, I became so confident that I decided to try my luck in modeling and acting. I was shot down by many, many people, until I came across The Miss Wheelchair India beauty pageant.I participated and I won second place. From that day on, my life changed. People started recognizing me because of the pageant and my writing on Quora. I was interviewed for many newspapers(thanks to the PR department at my hospital), and I was even on the news. I've had so many articles published on various websites, mainly because of all the media coverage and because of my popularity on Quora.The biggest news yet: I was interviewed for a popular Hindi magazine that's widely circulated throughout America and India called Arogya Sanjeevani. I was expecting a column about my life and struggles, rather it turned into a three page spread in the magazine.I never expected to be so popular or 'famous', but it's worked out for me, despite my 'disability'. I now truly believe that there's so much more for me in the future, and nothing is holding me back.(Source: Arogya Sanjeevani)