 Please gather around my imaginary camp fire and listen to a story of my friend who projecticle vomited on me. I assure you, it's kind of funny.Yesterday (yes, this happened yesterday) a couple of friends and I were invited to my other friend's house for a house party. We were there from eleven at night until seven in the morning. It was pretty fun, to be honest. We were all joking around and pulling each other's legs. We were smoking some hookahs and snacking on banana chips. Suddenly someone has the brilliant idea of getting some alcohol  which I was dreading. I've stopped drinking since August of this year and I knew I'd end up taking care of anyone that got too tipsy.Now, this party wasn't an ordinary party; most of the people there were on wheelchairs. There were only a couple of people there who could walk, (this bit of information is really important). It was about three in the morning and two of our friends went to get some alcohol. All the girls that were there are light weights  they almost never drink more than two glasses of red wine. Well, the boys came back with the alcohol. They bought two bottles of red wine and two large bottles of beer.Suddenly, one of my friends (Amy) launches herself at the wine and demands everyone to pour her some. My friend (Dex), who is a self-proclaimed bartender (even though he sucks) poured all the girls (except me and one other friend (Erica) ) somewhat equal amounts of wine. The boys divided the beers into glasses and everyone started drinking. Suddenly, Amy finishes her glass and asks for more; since she's a light weight, I told her to enjoy the wine with sips, and not to down it immediately, otherwise she'll definitely get drunk. Of course, she doesn't listen to me.Amy finishes her second glass and starts complaining that she isn't even feeling a bit warm or high. She starts blaming the guys that they got her grape juice instead of wine, which in retrospect, I wish it was true. Quite quickly, she finishes one whole bottle of red wine. Then, she starts hitting people, laughing, shouting, screaming, and then crying. It was quite heartbreaking to see her release all of her suppressed emotions and anger.After seeing this, we cleaned up the hookahs and put it away, we started sitting around her, trying to calm her down, trying to make her laugh. She was a wreck of emotions. Amy was sitting against the headboard of the bed, with her legs facing the door. I was sitting on the edge of the bed, with my legs hanging towards the floor. Suddenly, Amy tells me to come closer, because she wants a hug (she was too drunk to move). I shifted closer to her and gave her a hug, I told her everything would be alright.Amy pushed me and screams for a bucket because she was going to vomit. Well, me being the dumbass that I am, I didn't move becaus everyone was running around to get a bucket. As soon as one of her cousins brings a bucket in, she projectile vomited on me, luckily I turned my face away and leaned my body back, so she vomited on my stomach and legs  a little bit got on the side of my neck too. He finally gave her the bucket and she puked her insides out.If I had to insert a rubber duck at any moment, it would have to be this one. I'd insert a huge jumbo sized rubber duck, that was big enough to shield me from her projectile vomiting. I mean, it would look funny but it would also stop me from smelling like vomit.