 I moved to India in 2008 for more treatment and options for my health. If you don't know what happened to me, I suggest you read: Virali Modi's answer to What does it feel like to survive death?.In 2008, I weighed 75kgs, I was paralyzed from my chest down. I had some movement in my arms, but they weren't strong enough for me to be completely independent. My mom and I moved to India, leaving my father behind in America (so he could provide financial stability). It was incredibly difficult leaving behind the United States and of course my father. What made it even more difficult is the fact that I didn't know Hindi (a widely spoken language), I could only understand it. The only languages I knew were English and Gujarati (my mother tongue).On top of that, when we landed in Mumbai, the next day, we took a train to Delhi for an ayurvedic treatment. This treatment required my mom and I to stay there for a month (coincidentally, my birthday month). I was given digusting medicines to drink and pills to swallow, oil massages in which I couldn't shower for a couple of days, and head massages which left my hair oily and gross looking. I was also put on a strict diet which, in retrospect, wasn't really healthy. The people there knew no English, which made it hard for me to communicate with them, because I couldn't speak Hindi. The treatment didn't help me at all. It was a failure, I saw no improvements, even when I continued the medicines at home for over a year.During that year, I also underwent another treatment which was kind of the same, but the men that would massage my legs, would come home. The oil was a mixture of herbs, oils, and seeds  which smelt horrible. I was sexually assaulted by one of the men there, so we stopped the treatment, after doing it for over five months. This treatment didn't yeild any positive effects, either.For the next two years, I underwent so many different treatments; you name it, I've done it. I also went to several astrologers/fortune tellers, because back then everyone kept saying that someone's done black magic on me, which I never believed. We spent so much money behind these treatments, astrologers, and fortune tellers. As you can imagine, there were no improvements. I was the same as I was in 2008.In 2010, I came across a treatment known as Stem Cell Therapy in Mumbai. I went there, I met the doctor and the therapists, and got an evaluation done. They explained the treatment in such detail and showed me their results and research (I also did my own research), that I was content and ecstatic with it. I went ahead and booked my stay there for the stem cells. I've been going to Neurogen for approximately five years now, and I haven't looked back. I was 75kgs, short, stumpy, and paralyzed; Now I'm 52kgs, average height, healthy, and I'm able to feel contractions of my legs muscles. I'm getting better, and I haven't believed in any other treatment, more than I believe in this.I can definitely say that my treatments, the experiences I've had with other people, and the unfortunate events that I've been through has made my risk (moving to India) worthwhile. My health has greatly approved, I have over 43k followers on Quora, I'm gradually gaining fame, and one of my favorite directors (of Bollywood), Mr. Nagesh Kukunoor tweeted about one of my newest written article, which has made me ecstatic!