 First, get familiar with the concept Heuristics in judgment and decision-making. Barry Hampe mentioned logical fallacies, but also try to learn about Cognitive biases. Basically, our brains evolved to make quick decisions and judgements at the cost of accuracy. Biases alter how we both perceive and judge information, often without our awareness this is taking place. Keep in mind that even learning about biases can't prevent you from committing them. However, awareness can help provide strategies on how you can minimize their impact. Below are some links to books, podcasts, etc that cover this topic. Thinking, Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman. One of the most popular books on this subject from one of the biggest names in Behavioral economics and cognitive psychology.http://youarenotsosmart.com/ - A podcast dedicated to covering self-delusion, errors in judgement etc.Freakonomics " Podcasts - A lot of the episodes cover Behavioral economics, which is a fusion of cognitive psychology and economics. They do a good of job of covering how these biases affect our lives and how economists are studying and dealing with this topic.List of cognitive biases The Cracked Podcast - Oddly enough, a good many of the Cracked podcast episodes discuss topics related to cognitive psychology, but from a pop-culture-y/irreverent manner. It's probably best to try to listen to it if you are in your mid-30s or younger. The Skeptics Guide to the Universe - They can be a bit snarky, but they do a good job of covering current science news items while debunking whatever pseudoscience claim is meme-ing it's way around the Internet.In general, keep in mind that our senses only take in a fraction of the information available and we almost immediately forget most of it. What we don't forget, we rarely remember with 100% accuracy. There's nothing wrong with, well, being wrong. It's far more important to learn from our mistakes adapt going forward. Try to get into a habit of practicing Introspection and Metacognition. Question why you make certain decisions. Did you believe a news story because it already conformed to your decision? Did you start eating pomegranates because you read many peer-reviewed journal articles that discuss the health benefits, or was it because you saw them mentioned Facebook?It is impossible to avoid making irrational, illogical decisions all the time. Our brains aren't wired like that. However, a little humility and knowledge can help. In fact, one of the most useful things one can do is to find good, trusted devil's advocates. Run your ideas and decisions by people (who are knowledgeable about the subject) who aren't afraid to tell you why you are wrong. One of the worst things you can do when it comes to critical thinking is to surround yourself with sycophants who never tell you when you are making a horrible decision. If you ever become rich and famous, make sure at least one person in your entourage isn't afraid to call you out when you are about to do something that'll ruin your career. :)