 I just watched it for the first time this weekend (May 17, 2015.) I was pretty nervous going in as I heard it had over-the-top violence, which I generally don't enjoy. That being said, I loved it. It was an amazingly filmed scene, from choreography, editing, music choice, etc. I saw many comments and reviews calling it over the top, jaw dropping, disgusting, too violent, etc. The actual depiction of violence itself could barely quality to even be cartoonish. Someone actually made an infographic of Harry's kills in that scene[1]:Despite killing 40 people in less than 3.5 minutes, there's almost no blood or gore, no suffering, and almost everyone dies instantly. The use of a Westboro Baptist Church expy was interesting in that they are a group that are equally hated by both the politically left and right. The former for their social views and the latter for their anti-military protests. However, there was absolutely no setup for the congregation to be killed. None of the members are introduced before the scene. The preacher wasn't in cahoots with the villain. The audience was simply given a minute or setup to let us know these were despicable people before Galahad went on his murder orgy. The viewer is supposed to feel an adrenaline rush as Harry cuts through them like a ginsu through watermelon. At the end of the scene, Harry is obviously shaken and very disturbed as he was fully conscious of what he did. The Kingsman have a strict code of not taking life unless necessary and while I would never want to hang out with any of the church members socially, they didn't necessarily deserve to die either. At least, not by "movie rules" anyway. I suppose this may cause the viewer to question his/her own enjoyment of the scene and violence incurred on innocent (if not morally repugnant) victims. However, to me, the preacher was so wildly exaggerated and the violence itself was so insubstantial that I just got a kick out of it. The other factor is that all this went down in a church. Being not particularly religious, this had no affect on me but I can see it disturbing others.[1]Kingsman Infographic - The Church Scene