 Earlier in the season, Pied Piper ran into funding issues when Peter Gregory died and Hooli sued them for intellectual property violations. Raviga pulled their funding and no other VCs wanted a part of Pied Piper with the pending lawsuit. At some point, they got a call from a company interested in investing in Pied Piper and asked for them to give a presentation. It turned out that company, Endframe, were just trying to trick the Pied Piper team into divulging technical details on his "middle-out" compression algorithm ("brain raping") Unfortunately, by the time they figured out they were just being used, Dinesh and Gilfoyle had given away enough information to allow Endframe to reverse-engineer the algorithm and build their own platform off of that. With Hooli's massive problems implementing Nucleus, it appears that Endframe is going to be the main adversary for the second half of season two.Below is Pied Piper's blog post on this matter:We Are Not Endframe by Jared DunnIf you saw the stunt that the energy drink Homicide recently livestreamed on their site, you may have seen Powered by Endframe at the bottom of the screen.Since I had announced in this very blog that we, Pied Piper, would be handling the streaming for this event, you perhaps thought, Oh, I guess Pied Piper changed their name. Thats a pity, because it was both compelling and whimsical. Well, that was not us. Endframe is not us. It is, however, our tech, which Endframes founders stole in collusion with the VC firm Branscombe Ventures.This was the brain rape that made me cry out in betrayal, to someone I thought was a friend: Say it aint so, bro! It hurt as much as the loss of Campbell Scott hurt Julia Roberts in the shamefully un-sequeled Dying Young. Endframe? More like FriendShame, if you ask me!We may well initiate legal action against these pretenders to the throne of middle-out technology. And if so, we have no doubt we will prevail, because not only do we have better tech, we are better people. And as we all know: In this Valley, the good guys win.[1][1]We Are Not Endframe