 Other than a couple of its neighbours, India's relations with the rest of the world is fairly ok. Most of India's hostilities are dated post-1947 and precursors of the present Indian state didn't have major enmities with the rest of the world. India's key enmity is with Pakistan. The brutal breakup of India to form Pakistan in 1947, the bloodshed accompanying this partition, the non-resolution of things in Jammu & Kashmir still keeps the hostilities alive. India and Pakistan have fought 4 wars.With China, India's conflict is more nuanced. India and China historically coexisted without much conflict. Their only conflict is traced to a brief border tussle in 1962. However, outsider powers have always played a role. China's relationship with Pakistan and India's historic relationship with US & USSR has played hidden games. What are all the conflicts between India and China?With Nepal, India has had a cordial relationships despite occasional roadblocks like what is happening over the past few weeks [autumn 2015]. In Myanmar, India has a neutral stand with potential for deeper relationships. With Sri Lanka, Maldives and Bangladesh, there has been moments of highs and lows. India helped Bangladesh win independence from Pakistan and helped Sri Lanka win over Tamil terrorist outfits. In Maldives it helped fight coups. In Bhutan, India has the most friendliest of its neighbors with no major tussles. Afghanistan would be the second friendliest neighbor for India although the Taliban period strained the relations temporarily. FriendshipsIndia's closest ally is probably Israel and both nations significantly underplay their friendships to their public. India doesn't want to irk its friends in the Islamic world and Israel plays along.After Israel, India's key friends are US and USSR. US has had key interests in the subcontinent and in general helped better peace despite its friendship with Pakistan. With Russia, India has had very cosy relationships through most of the cold war although that friendships are a little low now. In France, Germany and Japan, India has its biggest technology & defense partners. These relationships are getting stronger as of 2015.In the commercial sector, India's closest friends are Singapore and Mauritius - both with a huge population of people with Indian ancestry and key conduits of capital into India. With countries of British commonwealth - UK, Australia, Canada, Caribbean etc, India has a somewhat positive relationship with Cricket providing both the friendliness and rift [India Cricket board is among the most hated]. These ties have not been fully capitalized until now.In Africa, India has some kinship relationships and there has been traditional warmth on both sides. However, this has not translated into trade or geopolitics until recently. India's ties in South East Asia is somewhat similar. There are historic relations and buddy relations developed from colonization and period of Non Aligned nations. But, only recently they are getting translated to economy.In West Asia, India has a lukewarm friendship. It has a lot of interest in the region including oil and immigrants, but the region's friendship with Pakistan and some of India's domestic troubles have not made this into a deeper friendship. Iran and UAE are probably India's closest friends in the region at present, although in the past there were warm ties with Iraq and Egypt. In Latin America and Central Asia, India's relationships are very limited and mostly focused on oil exploration. There is a long way to go there.Looking ForwardOne advantage going for India is that its hostile powers are not that well regarded internationally as of 2015. Pakistan, for instance, is widely seen as the culprit although only a few decades ago the shoe was on the other foot.India was also not exploiting its diaspora around the world and focused too narrowly on its strategic interests. In the past few years, there is a welcome change as the diaspora is used to build new bridges. There is much more focus on economics and geopolitics than any time in India's past. This pragmatic thinking is making for more involved relationship with the rest of the world.One thing that might surprise you is finding who looks India's influence positively. It is Iran, Afghanistan, Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Nigeria. Those are all the countries in which India has not fully engaged in trade relationships. Attitudes towards Countries