 In case of the first wave of English colonies (16th-18th centuries), the people from England settled in those colonies. Not just some men toting guns, but whole families - men, women and kids who made their voyage on Mayflower and countless other ships. Due to a variety of religious revolutions and civil war, many common English folk took these ships as a way out. In contrast, in other European countries there was not as much pain in that period to move whole families out. French, Dutch, Germans and Italians just stayed put at home. Only a few young men were sent and they would return after their mission. No major families or settlements abroad. Spanish and Portuguese settled more than the French and Dutch, but still were not moving as much as the English. [South Africa was one exception for the Dutch. There they Dutch stayed in large numbers & had a prosperous nation that was at the same time the worst for the natives.]In that wave of English colonies - US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand - the locals were mostly driven out to remote settlements and the English immigrants totally took over the land. They brought their ideas and technology and built their homes. Since they were settling permanently they were more vested in ensuring rights, liberty etc. Other colonial settlers were not settling for good and out there to make a fast buck out of the resources and markets. Thus, they never setup as good infrastructure - social and physical. They also didn't bring the best of their technology. At the same time, other colonial powers didn't always wipe the native cultures as much as the English did at that time. From the late 18th century onwards the situation flipped. It was now the English who were done with the civil wars & revolutions and the rest of Europe picking up the chaos. Englishmen stopped settling outside in droves and in the second wave of colonization - India, Malaysia, Kenya, Egypt - they did like what other colonial powers did. They sent their young men to war, to trade and to rule, but they didn't send their families to settle. This meant that the native cultures were not exterminated, but at the same time the colonial masters had little incentive to think in the colony's main interests - as they were not settling there anyway. It was at this time that a lot of Germans, Italians, Irish and other Europeans took the boats to escape the chaos. They settled in large numbers in the US and elsewhere. However, by then England and other powers had already setup their culture. Thus, even when Germans rivalled the English in numbers in North America, US & Canada never turned German, but remained British. Britain's colonies ended in two extremities. On one end you have prosperous ones like US & Australia and on other end you have Myanmar, Zimbabwe, Sudan, etc. The difference is how many English tried to make the colony as their home vs see it merely as a land for exploitation. South Africa fall somewhere inbetween. At the end of the day, colonization provided two choices - lose all native civilization & culture or lose all of economic power & prosperity. All colonies lost at least one of the two. If the Native Americans & Aborigines lost their civilization & homelands, Indians & Egyptians lost their economic prosperity.