 Not all Nepalis hate India. Only one small, but influential group does. To understand the issues behind, lets get into the demographics. There are roughly 4 major demographic groups in Nepal:Caste & Hindu Hill Elites - They are predominantly comprised of the Khas people who moved from Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal etc in the past few centuries. The Khas people are further divided into Chhetri (Kshatriya), Baun (Brahmin) and Kami castes. Madhesis (plains people) - They are often hindus who moved from Bihar - many of whom who moved in the past century. Indigenous tribes - These groups like Tharu, Magar and Tamang often live in isolated valleys and hills. Newars - They claim to be original inhabitants of the Kathmandu valley and possibly of mixed ethnicity with roots in both India and China. (Note: The term Gorkha refers to a territory of Nepal from which the Shah rulers originated & by extension refers to the whole of kingdom or the CHHE. However, the British term of Gurkhas refers to all soldiers of Nepali origin.).Hatred for India is predominantly limited to the first group. Madhesis are often pro-India and the remaining two groups are fairly indifferent although different subgroups might have mild hatred to mild liking. This dislike for India is fairly old and the recent Indian reaction to the Constitution (Why is India so much concerned about Nepal adopting a constitution?) only opened the old wounds. The hatred is also fairly complex with political, geopolitical, nationalist, economic, casteist dimensions.Colonialism: The CHHE had a spectacular rise to power in the 18th century under the Prithvi Narayan Shah who unified Nepal around the Kathmandu valley. Their rise is somewhat parallel to that of the Marathas at that time. Their power consolidation and geographic isolation allowed East India Company to build a treaty with them on a more equal footing. Some CHHE tend to look down upon Indians as most of South Asia was colonized while they were not.Caste: Some CHHE tend to have caste superiority as they belong to the upper castes and often from more "superior" regions like Kashmir in contrast with the lower caste migrants who moved later from India.Treaty of Sugauli: As the Shah pushed into territories like Uttarakhand, the East India Company defeated them and took over their territories [what the CHHE refer to as "Greater Nepal"] that are now in India. Some nationalists still believe they can get this back. Sikkim: In 1970s India acquired the Himalayan kingdom of Sikkim next to Nepal. Many Nepalis feared that they too might be acquired by India. Nationalism: Many CHHE believe India casts too big a shadow on their nation and as ardent nationalists they resent that. Things like Buddha's birth and Kanchenjunga location [Indian people casually claim both of these border locations, although for the most part they are in Nepal] can bristle the nationalists.Political: CHHE feel that their power was constantly eroded by the "India backed" Madhesis whose migration significantly increased since 1950s. They often tend to view whole of India from the prism of Madhesis and Biharis. Indian politics: Indian bureaucracy allegedly has a paternalistic attitude towards the neighbors and the government often posted least accomplished/least powerful bureaucrats to manage relationships with these small nations, while top diplomats always posted to US/European embassies. Such attitude and management has often led to heartburn for both sides.