 For centuries, Japan was a frontier region that enjoyed a fair amount of cultural influences from China, while still remaining independent. In many senses, it resembles Britain that again was a frontier for a long time looking up to the empires of the mainland. In the 19th century both had enlightened monarchs (Queen Victoria and Emperor Meiji) who ruled a very long time and took their countries to their heights.Perry ExpeditionIn 19th century, Japan was under feudal lords with only a nominal power with the emperor. It was a very closed and stagnant society. This changed in 1854 when an American named Matthew C. Perry was dispatched by President Fillmore to force the opening up of Japan. There was both a religious missionary motivation as well as business motivation. US and China had a very booming trade capitalizing on China's fall and US wanted to extend that to Japan too. Perry Expedition and Gunboat diplomacy. With warships threatening Edo (Tokyo), the local chief Abe Masahiro had to give in and open trade with the west. Like in China and India, the trade with the west didn't go well for the Asian country as it was not in their terms. It was disastrous and shred the Japanese economy to pieces. To make matters worse there were massive earthquakes that shook Japan - in a physical as well as a metaphorical way. Ansei great earthquakesWithin a decade the Shogunate [rule of feudal lords] came to a dramatic end through public anger. The teenage emperor called Emperor Meiji took up the throne after his father was poisoned. In that time, the emperor formally ruled from Kyoto, although the real powers were with the Shoguns based in Edo (Tokyo). Meiji RestorationMeiji made Edo the formal east capital (now named Tokyo) with the recognition of economic power. He abolished feudalism with powers moving out of the Shoguns, Daimyos and Samurais. That said, many believe that oligarchs still had a quite a large power even after the restoration.The emperor brought a modern army by extending the power to bear arms beyond just the samurai. The disgruntled samurai were then employed in various government bureaucracy. The transition to modern army and navy made Japan stand out in Asia and allowed it to eventually deal with the west on more equal terms.In parallel, there was a massive industrial revolution. A ministry of industry was created in 1870 and a whole bunch of industrial conglomerates called the Zaibatsu arose. Literacy rose quickly and women were employed in large numbers by the nascent industries. This crashed the birth rates and the