 power. Look at the oldest universities setup in British India and you can see that all of them around the 3 Presidency towns.All the major universities were started around the 3 Presidency towns. North got none until later.Being the center of administration, it was the 3 Presidencies that brought the first nationalist organizations that was to later merge and become the Congress Party. The partition of Bengal in 1905 was a lightning rod for the nationalists & British viceroy was totally taken aback by the development. While they restored Bengal's unity in 1911, Britain finally woke up to the danger of what is happening in Bengal and other Presidencies and moved power to an hitherto ignored region - Delhi around which they were now drawing their army. They thought now the government would be safe from the nationalists. While Delhi was developed in the last 3 decades of the British rule, it was too little and too late for north India. North India was deurbanized and its glorious ancient cities were now in shambles & squalor. With no cities, there was no science, no commerce and no art. In contrast with the north, British rule was slightly less brutal on the coastal metropolises & even today the attitude towards British can drastically vary between these two populations. South India was also fortunate to have better run Princely states of Mysore and Travancore who were way better than most rulers of India . The only region in south that was totally misruled was the Nizam led Hyderabad and even today you can see the drastic development difference between Telangana and other southern states. In short, the elevation of south and east in sectors like science is predominantly a result of colonization that moved power from river plains to the coasts & developed very few cities in north India. You can note that while the south got new cities of Hyderabad, Bangalore and Madras all developed in the past 400 years, north India had no new city built until the start of the 20th century. The once marvelled plains of Ganges with glorious towns of Allahabad, Benaras, Gaya and others were in shambles by the 20th century.The delay in building modern cities was crucial in keeping the north behind the south. Even today, north is highly rural and it was not historically the case.When we analyze the biggest calamity colonization did to India, it is that the vast swathes of interior India - especially in the north - that had the most population and most number of cities in ancient India were ignored and left to rot.