 Only a small fraction of the Indian Muslims belonged to the ruling class. Among that ruling class, a sizable chunk [such as the Nawab of Junagadh and many Zamindars in Awadh & elsewhere] migrated to Pakistan after the partition. A large section of Indian Muslims come from the lower segments of the Hindu society and thus face the same problems of their peers in the Hindu community. Instead of comparing Hindus v. Muslims as a whole, a better comparison would be comparing two people from the same locality/caste/class background, but only differ by religion. Besides the caste composition, there a several key factors:Geography: A large chunk of Indian Muslims live in poorer and often landlocked states. Muslim concentration is the highest in J&K, Assam, UP, Bihar, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. Other than Kerala, all the other states have low incomes. In prosperous states such as Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Goa, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra Muslim population is quite less. Page on prsindia.orgColonialism: While colonialism hit all of India, Muslims were slightly more impacted due to their occupation and geography. A lot of them were artisans working in cities like Lucknow and Varanasi. They were now out of job through industrial revolution. In the new metropolises of the colonial era - Bombay, Calcutta and Madras - Muslim population was traditionally low. Unlike the upper caste Hindus, they were not able to switch to the new economy when British Raj changed everything around. Rights of Muslim women: While Nehru pushed through major reforms in Hindu civil law, he was too cautious in doing the same to Muslim women. These laws on divorce, marriage and inheritance helped Hindu women grow better than their Muslim peers. In 1980s, Rajiv Gandhi's government went against even a basic grant of alimony to a Muslim woman in Shah Bano case. Again, it is all relative - we are just talking about say 5-10% difference in incomes and education. Hindu women too continue to face enormous challenges, but are slightly better placed than Muslim women. A community cannot develop without its women. Modernizing education system: As much as 10% of Muslim children study in Madrasas. Modernity And The Madrasa. These degrees are not recognized and don't prepare the students for the modern economy. Far less percentage of Hindus graduate from religious schools. Government has to look to get a sizable portion of them into the formal schooling. I have written another answer on the same topic: What are the reasons behind Indian Muslims' backwardness (educational, social, political, economic)?