 Landlocked: India's least developed states - Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh are all landlocked. Access to sea is a huge factor especially in modern era centered on global trade. Obviously, this alone is not a factor as a few states like Punjab are developed despite being landlocked.Government expenditures: Here is the table of how the governments spent their development expenditures per person. Bihar and UP got the least resource allocation, while states like Punjab got as many as 5 times per capita allocation. Part of this reason could be higher population of Bihar for which it was punished many times. For a long time Bihar & UP got very less dams, irrigation projects, roads, railways, airports or any such infrastructure. Political circus: Between 1961 and 2005, Bihar's leadership changed as many as 30 times. List of Chief Ministers of Bihar Political instability meant no one would invest in the state. In the 1990s, when India was getting large foreign investments, Bihar that accounted for more than 10% of the population received only 0.10% of the FDI. As anarchy loomed, caste became far more important for organization than in most other states. No new urban development: Madras, Bombay, Bangalore, Calcutta, Hyderabad, Chandigarh, New Delhi are all modern cities - built in the past 400 years and with the technology of present time. Bihar and UP have no such cities. There is an excessive reliance on ancient towns such as Patna and Gaya - built for different times. While Patna was expanded a bit in the British era [with the addition of the "New" City], no new cities were built from scratch for such a massive population. With no cities & modern jobs, Biharis have to travel as far as Mumbai and New Delhi and often face brunt of xenophobia.Extremely large political units: Bihar and UP are too large political units. They have more people than all but 10 countries. This makes governance very hard. Even in the past, Bihar was part of monstrous political units such as Bengal that had more people than the next largest units - Madras and Bombay combined. List of states in India by past population While the split of states in 2000 helped the smaller Bihar grow fast, it is still too big to govern and its past poor growth still impacts. Industrial policy: Bihar had a large textile industry that mostly vanished in the British Raj. Colonists made peasants grow crops like Indigo and this led to wide agricultural crisis prompting leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi to launch his satyagraha at Champaran. In independent India, the freight policy that provided practically free transportation for Bihar's raw materials all over the country meant that industries chose the coastal towns instead of locating closer to the resources. No major reforms: After independence, Indian government started its land reforms to take lands away from exploiting feudal lords. In the south it succeeded. In the gangetic plains, it didn't. Feudal Zamindars had a huge sway from UP to West Bengal until recently. Here is a good paper on this from which all the data in the post was sourced and goes deeper into the factors. Page on tandfonline.comAlso see: Causes for Development Disparity between the Indias North and the South