 I don't see it going anywhere. Sooner or later some other issue will hog the media limelight and everyone will go after that. Exact same thing happened in case of the rape protests in India, the ice bucket challenges or the Occupy Wall Street in the US. People exaggerate ground reality and have a directionless protest, causing an eventual petering. It could come as early as Nov 8 [Bihar election results] or much later [especially if BJP loses].Two years ago, everyone and their goat commented on rising rape levels. Now, not many are talking about the Verma committee. What happened to those 10 proposals? How many of them are done? Who is following up these with the government? Who is making sure India is getting safer for women? None. Like the ice buckets & ALS, it is a fad that is as quickly forgotten as it got viral. That is sad. Because, we have not fixed a real problem there. Celebrities are no better than the common man in these fads. Like pouring the ice bucket, they make a quick statement of whatever is in the trend, make some noise and move on to the next fad. I have not seen any celebrity, including Narayana Murthy who made a comment in NDTV to bring their set of recommendations on how to solve the problem. A protest needs a direction and an organization. There needs to be a list of demands. In case of "intolerance", the demands could range from changing specific laws to asking for greater police/a special division to managing religious riots. What are the list of things the government must do to make India a tolerant nation? I don't see any credible list of demands. For instance, if a labour union fights with a single statement "workers are in pain" it will not get anywhere. If it makes a more specific demand "we need a 5% salary raise because of inflation" there is some scope for negotiations. Successful unions are fairly consistent with what they ask - like it or hate it, they get their way eventually. What are the specific things the protestors of "intolerance" asking? Where can I go and look at the central page for this organization? What are the list of concrete things they are demanding of the government? Whom should the government negotiate with, if they want a progress on this? If there is no clarity in any of the above, nothing would change on the ground.