 The premise could be disputed, but I will use this opportunity to talk about a key phase of Indian history that probably led to such phenomenon and why north lagged the south in modern era - in overall development not just in producing elite scientists. For most of its history, Indian north had great cities that were center of science & culture. Cities like Ujjain, Pataliputra, Taxila, Kannauj, Kashi, Delhi and Mathura stunned Indians and foreigners alike. They were all inland cities too. Indian coastal cities like Puhar (Did Tsunamis Strike Town Twice?) and Dwarka have faced enormous natural calamities forcing Indian empires to be built away from the coast. When the East India Company slowly colonized India, they started from the coasts. This was unusual in Indian history and one that allowed them an easier expansion as the local emperors didn't desire the coast as much as the inland plains. The company leased less populated harbours in what would become Madras, Bombay and Calcutta - among the largest cities of modern India. India's north has no coast and hence was less interesting for the European trade settlements.Even after the rest of India was colonized by the end of 18th century, the company continued to rule from the coasts. Madras, Bombay and Calcutta became the 3 Presidency towns - the most prestigious of British India. All of north India [with more than half of India's population] was originally ruled from the amorphous North-Western Provinces that was to become the Presidency of Agra, but never became. The north was later divided into various provinces, all with lower status and development than the Presidencies. The whole of north India never had Presidency towns!As railways became introduced in the mid 1850s, the 3 Presidency towns got much more power. These towns got the infrastructure, factories and later universities. Raw materials from rest of India were shipped to such places. These became center of commerce, culture, art and science. Calcutta the capital of India was the most powerful of the three and this led to the Bengal renaissance. The region that was never the center of India had finally found its due importance. After 1857, Britain also got very wary of upper castes and Muslims especially from the Presidencies and prevented these groups from entering the army, leading to a period of Punjabization (see more:What led to the transformation of Bengal?) It worked better for the upper castes as they used the opportunity to enter administration and commerce & eventually get more