 Trying to catch the Indian Air Force napping, Yahya Khan, launched a Pakistani version of Israels 1967 air blitz in hopes that one rapid attack would cripple Indias far superior air power. But India was alert, Pakistani pilots were inept, and Yahyas strategy of scattering his thin air force over a dozen air fields was a bust!  -- Newsweek, 20 Dec 1971Pakistan officially began the war. The details are a bit more complicated though. The genesis of the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war lay in the 1970 Bhola cyclone - the deadliest tropical cyclone recorded in history and one that killed nearly half million people in East Pakistan. Remember, back then Pakistan had an eastern wing and an western wing.Pakistan's leadership was very slow to address the damage in a region it had traditionally ignored. Coincidentally, Pakistan had its national elections just 3 weeks after that disaster. The angry masses of East Pakistan whose traditional grievance got aggravated by the cyclone, came in large numbers to provide a thumping victory to Mujibur Rahman led Awami league. Pakistani general election, 1970This meant that the center of power had finally passed from the Punjab region to the Bengal region where Awami league was predominantly based. However, that didn't turn out to become a reality. Mujibur was never allowed to become the Prime Minister as the national assembly meeting [Parliament] to have these elected representatives vote their PM was postponed. By March, 4 months after the elections, the Awami league grew impatient and launched a non-cooperation movement. In response, Pakistan's President Yahya Khan imposed a martial law and a brutal repression of the Bengalis [especially the Bengali Hindus and Bengali intelligentsia] termed the Operation Searchlight.On 25th March, Mujib was arrested and taken to West Pakistan. This led a major outcry and a rebel commander named Ziaur Rahman declared the independence of East Pakistan on 26th March in a radio address. I, Major Ziaur Rahman, do hereby declare the Independence of Bangladesh in the name of our great leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.[This day is now celebrated as the Bangladesh independence day. After independence, Mujib would be the President until 1975 when he and most of his family was assassinated. Zia became the first dictator following him. Their daughters - Sheikh Hasina - daughter of Mujib and Khaleda Zia - wife of Zia are the two major leaders of present Bangladesh - keeping the rivalry alive to this day. Hasina and her sister were the lone survivors in their family's brutal assassination, as they were studying in Germany].Back to March 1971. As protests exploded in East Pakistan, refugees came in droves to India. The plight of Hindus especially moved India reminding of the brutal scenes of 1947. Indian PM Indira Gandhi assisted the rebels with money, training and arms