 It is not mandatory, but is really helpful to everyone concerned. I found new perspectives being at the delivery room about three months ago for the birth of our son.Some benefits:Get much more physical bonding with the child: A generation ago, fathers had very little role in raising a young infant. Father's role came only in the toddler age. Such a sexist thing was unfavorable to both men and women. Now, fathers could take a much more deeper role that allows the women to recover faster and the child to form more bonding. Modern fathers no longer want to take a backseat role.Birthing need not be a lonely experience: The delivery room was very large and for the most time it had just 1 nurse. Even that nurse was often gone. It would have been very scary if my wife had to go through all this alone. I also attended all the birthing classes, something that was quite uncommon a generation ago. Too important event to be missed: Birth of the child is among the most significant events in life. It is a shame if the husband has to sit that out. Taking the child right after it is out and cutting its cord was an experience I didn't want to miss. Since my wife was too exhausted she didn't remember much that time and uses my memory to relive that moment. Understand the pain of birthing: Men have always known the pain of childbirth, but until you see the blood and gore, you don't fully feel how deadly it is. Being in the delivery room helps one see his wife from a different perspective and see the time of her biggest strength. It is a humbling experience. Give mental & physical support to the mother: Husband knows about his wife better than the nurses and also is more intimate. The Important Role Fathers Play In The Delivery Room This allows for mother to relax better and also get more involved in physical exercises. I was asked to make a call on whether to go for a Caesarean and being there I was a little more informed than I would have been otherwise. It all depends on how intimate the couple is though and could easily backfire if the wife is not comfortable with the husband - Fathers in delivery room could make pain of childbirth worse, study suggestsUltimately, let the mother and OB-GYN decide if you could be there and if either of the two feel your presence less helpful gracefully stay out. But, if they don't have an issue, look to be a part of the team even if you are the least important person in the room.