 It is a bad assumption and based on false dichotomy. Liking India doesn't mean hating the west. A large chunk of Indians do admire the west and so do a large number of Indians who like the Indian culture.India has had excellent relationships with the west since the beginning of history. We speak the same family of Indo-European languages and have had trade relationships since antiquity. Greeks have had warm relationships with India and so did the Romans who followed them. For a while direct relationships broke due to the power of the Arabs in the middle. Then Columbus & other Europeans set out to re-establish western links with India. Eventually, India started trading again. In the 18th century, India's Mughal empire broke up and its successor Maratha empire made a few missteps forcing the East India Company rule over India. Relationship soured for a while. However, in the 19th century, there was a rebirth of Indian thought with luminaries like Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Tagore, Vivekananda and Mahatma Gandhi. All of them had excellent grasp & appreciation for Indian culture, while also having excellent relationship with the west and westerners. Gandhi and Nehru continued India's great relationship with the west and India achieved independence without leaving Britain a sour taste. India retained the last British Viceroy and kept most of the British institutions - including the English language. Indian movies and other artforms liberally borrowed ideas from Hollywood, French & Italian cinema. In the end of the 20th century, there was a massive surge of India's relationship with US and this was led not by people who hated the Indian culture (the left), but by the people who love the Indian culture (the right). A large diaspora links India with the west & the diaspora traditionally had good appreciation for both cultures. As Indians get a renewed confidence in their own culture, they get better at dealing with the west, while at various times in the past our relationships were marred by fear and complex. What Indians are looking to do is to deal with the west on an equal footing like we did since antiquity. When Zuckerberg and Steve Jobs can draw inspiration & life decisions from Indian culture so too can Indians. And this can happen while still admiring Western science and economy.