 It surely is a major crime and how dare they do it in a secular country. We should ban such a heinous practice of chanting Aum near the tomb of Mahatma Gandhi. Next up, the government should ban the use of decimal number system as these ten digits have been devised by some Hindus in the past. Hindu numeral system. Such a blatant use of Hindu cultural symbols in a secular nation would hurt the sentiments of so many. To avoid the risk of India becoming a Hindu nation, the government should be made to use only Roman numerals everywhere. MMMMDCXXXVII crores this year should be earmarked for reprinting government documents. OMG can I use crores here without hurting anyone's sentiment? Because it is from Koti that is used in many Hindu scriptures. After that we should picket the homes of Viswanathan Anand, Koneru Humpy and other Chess grandmasters. How dare they publicly play a game devised by the Hindu monarchs. Such a casteist, racist, non-secular game where the white plays first must be banned. That is blatantly varna system and these upper caste slave owners are hurting the sentiments of millions. Balaji Viswanathan's answer to Is it racist that white makes the first move in a game of chess? After this, we will go after the school kids learning trignometry. The first use of sine and cosine tables come from ryabhaa's sine table and using such trigonometric tables in a blatant way from a Hindu would hurt the sentiments of so many. Next we will go after Diamonds. Those shiny rocks that some Hindu folks first discovered are playing havoc when it comes to buying rings. These stones long used as religious icons is non-secular. We will ban the entire diamond industry [double bonus, it is centered in Modi's state] and anyone wearing diamonds will be labeled as Modi bhakt. Finally, all Indian dance forms, music forms, drama arts should be banned near all government offices, because they all have their roots in religion. We should also take our lion emblem out, the national motto [Satyameva Jayate] and even the national flag because they all have religious symbols underneath.Secularism means a saint like Sankaracharya would not be passing laws in the Parliament, you will not be barred from becoming the head of the country merely because you are from religion X and the court would not punish you merely for not following a principle from Gita. But, it doesn't mean every element of Indian culture be removed from the public. Secularism primarily had its roots in Europe, where the Church historically had an outsized role. Indian religions don't have such a central church nor a powerful Pope and thus our Constitution was not written with the problems & paranoia of Europe in mind. Indian version of secularism is about tolerance and acceptance of all faiths like we always did through history, not a fanatic removal of cultural/historic symbols from public life. Should an Egyptian be forced to defend their great pyramids? Is a Greek expected to avoid talking about Herodotus or Alexander or any Greek symbol because of a possible (later) connotation with the crusades? Why is an Indian expected to avoid ancient Indian symbols and culture just because some outsider put a "religion" tag over this?Is the "Om" specific to only "Hinduism" or is it spread across a variety of Indian cultures? Where does Indian culture end and "Hindu" religion begin? How do you plan to whitewash Hindu religious elements without whitewashing Indian culture too? Once you whitewash this culture on what does the nation rest upon?