. Throughout that year things becoming getting worse for both India and Pakistan. Pakistan was now emboldened by the warmed relations with her two friends US & China and truly believed that the help of the major powers would help her "Crush India" - major campaign slogan across Pakistan. 24 Crucial Facts About 1971 War When India Bifurcated PakistanBy the beginning of December, war was imminent. It was then that Yahya Khan tried what Israel did 4 years ago to the Arab countries. On Dec 3, he launched waves of planes to cripple Indian air defense and named it Operation Chengiz Khan. Unfortunately for Pakistan, despite all the inspiration it was neither the great Khan nor Israel. PAF tried to hit as far as Agra, but India had the Taj covered. [Partial covering shown below]India quickly hit back. At the height of the cold war, in it Pakistan was assisted in that war by Saudi Arabia, United States, United Kingdom, Indonesia, Sri Lanka. The bigger power China, expected to join, didn't. However, even with all that external support Pakistan could not face the onslaught of the much superior Indian forces. Soviet Union's task force too thwarted any US Navy involvement in the Bay of Bengal. 1971 War: How Russia sank Nixons gunboat diplomacyPakistan, at the end, lost far more aircrafts, far more ships and far more men. It was cut into two and it surrendered within 12 days of the beginning of the war. Instrument of Surrender (1971). It was a stunning collapse from the euphoria of catching Indians napping to surrendering tens of thousands of men in an embarrassing surrender - all under two weeks.ConsequencesIt was a defining moment in Indian history. It was one of its biggest military victories in the modern era. It led to its later confident rise.Cutting up Pakistan's access to most of the Indian ocean & South East Asia with the loss of Bangladesh was a huge strategic gain for India. This was the only war when US and India came close to facing off against each other. Only Soviet Union's nuclear triad put out this nasty standoff. The value of nuclear deterrence was far clear to India now and India went nuclear not long after this war - Smiling Buddha.While Pakistan's military spun up their military disappointments positively in 1948 and 1965, in 1971 it was hard to cover up the defeat. Bifurcation of the nation even with the world's leading powers supporting it, was too hard for the military to explain away. Thus, Pakistan switched its whole strategy to covert warfare fronted by rebels and 1971 became the last full scale war between the two countries. The victory eventually allowed India to build friendships with the countries that sided Pakistan - US, UK, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Sri Lanka. External powers bet on the winning horse and Indira Gandhi ensured that hers was the top dog in South Asia and not Pakistan.