 The term caste comes from the Spanish word Casta - meaning lineage/breed/race that was used by the Spanish elites dealing with their colonies. This word in turn comes from the Latin word chaste meaning pure [lineage]. Eventually this term was used to describe social stratification everywhere else. You can see the different forms of caste across the world - Caste. In India, this roughly corresponds to Jti. While caste relates to the society & used in a variety of places, varnashrama is a term specific to Hinduism. It is comprised of 4 occupations (varna), how they should organize their life in 4 stages (ashrama) and 4 goals they should pursue (purusharta). The varna grouping looks similar to other terms elsewhere like the Four occupations of Confucian China and Estates of the realm of Europe, but when combined with goals and stages, it goes quite deep into guiding what individuals should do.First, let's start with the 4 goals - dharma (laws & morality), artha (wealth), kama (sex & pleasure), moksha (renunciation). Most Indian texts were arranged around these groups. For instance, the legendary Arthashastra deal with economics & politics, Kama Sutra deal with pleasures and various Dharmastras to deal with laws & morality. The Tamil classic of Tirukkua was divided into these three. There are no major groups of texts for the 4th goal, as it cannot be easily reduced to rules.These goals directly correspond to one's ashrama (stage of life). A student has to focus entirely on learning dharma, while a household person would focus more on artha & kama, a retired person dwelling on dharma and a hermit totally upon moksha.The goals and stages are finally guided by one's occupation (varna). The scholarly occupations were said to put more emphasis on attaining moksha, the warrior occupations more on upholding dharma, the merchant occupations to acquiring artha and the artisan/farmer focusing on kama tired from their backbreaking labor. Of course, all the 4 occupations pursued a bit of all the 4 goals, but the occupation decided how much effort was put on each of the four. Merchants didn't have the duty to fight for justice, while priests should not be too preoccupied to money/pleasure.The occupations also guide one's ashrama. Farmers and merchants traditionally didn't spend a lot of time in the student stage [practical learning was emphasized more] while scholars and rulers spent a lot of time in that Brahmacharya stage, for instance. All occupation however had householder's stage though. Open questions on varna & casteAre jati & varna related?: Jati has very little mention in ancient Hindu texts. No text describes what Lingayats or Iyers or Reddys or Nairs should do in life or even if there is such a classification. However, Jati is the fundamental building block of Indian society with the government even giving caste certificates mentioning one's Jati. Over time, many Indian communities have eventually evolved to provide some ad hoc mapping between Jati and Varna, but even today the varna mapping of large castes like Reddy, Nair and Thevar are not clear. In fact, from Hindu dharmic text it is not even clear if there has to be a mapping between the two.How potent were the varnas?: While most Indians can understand how deep jati goes, it is not clear how much impact did varnashrama have on Indian society. While Hinduism's ardent supporters and detractors claim the power of Hindu texts on the society, until recently, very small percentage of Indians have actually read any of Hindu texts. The Laws of Manu that goes deep into social relationships have no engravings in temples, pillars or anywhere else, for instance. That begs a question, if these laws were so important would they have not displayed widely in Indian temples & pillars like what Hammurabi or Ashoka did with theirs?How rigid were the varnas?: If there is no strict relationship between jatis & varnas, how were people assigned their varnas? This basic thing itself is not clear from Hindu texts. Rig Veda makes a brief mention of the 4 castes in Purusha Sukta, but in two sentences it goes on to something else without even describing the castes, their functions etc. According to the three modes of material nature and the work ascribed to them, the four divisions of human society were created by Me.  -- Bhagvat Gita (4.13)