 Trying to catch the Indian Air Force napping, Yahya Khan, launched a Pakistani version of Israels 1967 air blitz in hopes that one rapid attack would cripple Indias far superior air power. But India was alert, Pakistani pilots were inept, and Yahyas strategy of scattering his thin air force over a dozen air fields was a bust!  -- Newsweek, 20 Dec 1971Pakistan officially began the war. The details are a bit more complicated though. The genesis of the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war lay in the 1970 Bhola cyclone - the deadliest tropical cyclone recorded in history and one that killed nearly half million people in East Pakistan. Remember, back then Pakistan had an eastern wing and an western wing.Pakistan's leadership was very slow to address the damage in a region it had traditionally ignored. Coincidentally, Pakistan had its national elections just 3 weeks after that disaster. The angry masses of East Pakistan whose traditional grievance got aggravated by the cyclone, came in large numbers to provide a thumping victory to Mujibur Rahman led Awami league. Pakistani general election, 1970This meant that the center of power had finally passed from the Punjab region to the Bengal region where Awami league was predominantly based. However, that didn't turn out to become a reality. Mujibur was never allowed to become the Prime Minister as the national assembly meeting [Parliament] to have these elected representatives vote their PM was postponed. By March, 4 months after the elections, the Awami league grew impatient and launched a non-cooperation movement. In response, Pakistan's President Yahya Khan imposed a martial law and a brutal repression of the Bengalis [especially the Bengali Hindus and Bengali intelligentsia] termed the Operation Searchlight.On 25th March, Mujib was arrested and taken to West Pakistan. This led a major outcry and a rebel commander named Ziaur Rahman declared the independence of East Pakistan on 26th March in a radio address. I, Major Ziaur Rahman, do hereby declare the Independence of Bangladesh in the name of our great leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.[This day is now celebrated as the Bangladesh independence day. After independence, Mujib would be the President until 1975 when he and most of his family was assassinated. Zia became the first dictator following him. Their daughters - Sheikh Hasina - daughter of Mujib and Khaleda Zia - wife of Zia are the two major leaders of present Bangladesh - keeping the rivalry alive to this day. Hasina and her sister were the lone survivors in their family's brutal assassination, as they were studying in Germany].Back to March 1971. As protests exploded in East Pakistan, refugees came in droves to India. The plight of Hindus especially moved India reminding of the brutal scenes of 1947. Indian PM Indira Gandhi assisted the rebels with money, training and arms. Throughout that year things becoming getting worse for both India and Pakistan. Pakistan was now emboldened by the warmed relations with her two friends US & China and truly believed that the help of the major powers would help her "Crush India" - major campaign slogan across Pakistan. 24 Crucial Facts About 1971 War When India Bifurcated PakistanBy the beginning of December, war was imminent. It was then that Yahya Khan tried what Israel did 4 years ago to the Arab countries. On Dec 3, he launched waves of planes to cripple Indian air defense and named it Operation Chengiz Khan. Unfortunately for Pakistan, despite all the inspiration it was neither the great Khan nor Israel. PAF tried to hit as far as Agra, but India had the Taj covered. [Partial covering shown below]India quickly hit back. At the height of the cold war, in it Pakistan was assisted in that war by Saudi Arabia, United States, United Kingdom, Indonesia, Sri Lanka. The bigger power China, expected to join, didn't. However, even with all that external support Pakistan could not face the onslaught of the much superior Indian forces. Soviet Union's task force too thwarted any US Navy involvement in the Bay of Bengal. 1971 War: How Russia sank Nixons gunboat diplomacyPakistan, at the end, lost far more aircrafts, far more ships and far more men. It was cut into two and it surrendered within 12 days of the beginning of the war. Instrument of Surrender (1971). It was a stunning collapse from the euphoria of catching Indians napping to surrendering tens of thousands of men in an embarrassing surrender - all under two weeks.ConsequencesIt was a defining moment in Indian history. It was one of its biggest military victories in the modern era. It led to its later confident rise.Cutting up Pakistan's access to most of the Indian ocean & South East Asia with the loss of Bangladesh was a huge strategic gain for India. This was the only war when US and India came close to facing off against each other. Only Soviet Union's nuclear triad put out this nasty standoff. The value of nuclear deterrence was far clear to India now and India went nuclear not long after this war - Smiling Buddha.While Pakistan's military spun up their military disappointments positively in 1948 and 1965, in 1971 it was hard to cover up the defeat. Bifurcation of the nation even with the world's leading powers supporting it, was too hard for the military to explain away. Thus, Pakistan switched its whole strategy to covert warfare fronted by rebels and 1971 became the last full scale war between the two countries. The victory eventually allowed India to build friendships with the countries that sided Pakistan - US, UK, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Sri Lanka. External powers bet on the winning horse and Indira Gandhi ensured that hers was the top dog in South Asia and not Pakistan.