 No. He couldn't have. But, he did try as I will explain soon. Castes are so deep in the Indian society and no one knows its origin [even the oldest of Rig Vedic verses just mention varnas rather than define it & don't have any mention of different jati names]. Had he tried eliminating castes itself he would have been ignored by Indian populace and his fight against untouchability would have been a non-starter. Instead, he fought through other routes to weaken castes without being seen as fighting it.Castes are somewhat analogous to ethnicities elsewhere and ethnic identities are notoriously hard to remove. US, for instance, is a great melting pot that has welded ethnic identities far better than most countries. Even there, you can see hyphenated identities - Black American, Italian American, Jewish American, Indian American, Chinese American and so on. Weddings between races are more an exception than the norm. In Boston, I have also seen "castes" work overtly and subtly. See more: What's a Boston Brahmin?Instead of trying to remove ethnic label, world over reformers tried neutralizing narrow labels with much larger identity labels:Nationalism: Europe's feudalism and estate system ended after nationalism took over a couple of centuries ago. People then saw their local identities less important than broader labels [such as English, French, German etc]. Congress under Gandhi tried a similar way - focusing on a stronger national identity to smoothen out narrower caste identity.Religion: Christianity and Islam often welded tribal identities by the broader umbrella of religion. It was not always successful [world wars and constant wars in Middle East] but the gradients in the society was somewhat smoothened. Gandhi and many other reformers tried the religion route to once again provide larger labels. My Religion by M K GandhiRemoving discrimination: In the US and Europe, the ethnic labels were never really removed, but they stopped being a major factor after a number of legal reforms and social projects. People will not give up their identities, but they could be made to see that the identity labels are equal. Along with many others he was instrumental in Temple proclamation of India's dalits. Vaikom SatyagrahaIntercaste marriages: Although in the first half of his career Gandhi didn't advocate intercaste marriages, once he spent a decade in India, he started pushing for intercaste marriages as a way to weld multiple ethnic identities. The Modernity of Tradition and Gandhiji oversaw the first inter-caste marriage.In Gandhi, we see a major evolution of man as he shed his own prejudices over the course of his career and went about documenting the changes happening inside him. Thus, we see drastically different viewpoints towards castes from before 1920s to post 1920s.