 In academia, they believe the Vedic age to be between 1500 BCE - 500 BCE. While many believe that Vedas are much older and some believe it is somewhat newer, let me just take the academic belief for this answer.Around the world, there was a major collapse of Bronze age cultures - Late Bronze Age collapse - that also possibly brought down Indus Valley, ancient Greece among others. Mesopotamia and Egypt however resumed with just dynastic changes. Like in the periods before, the civilization was primarily centered around the Middle East. There were a whole bunch Indo-European groups practicing similar to the Vedic religion that took control of the region. The most powerful were the Mitanni kingdom who were closely associated with the Vedas. In their culture, they used god names like Mitra, Indra, Varuna and their kings names [Artatama, Tushratta, Kirta] are quite close to modern Sanskrit names. In fact, the dating of the Vedas and one of the arguments for the "Aryan Invasion Theory" come from this connection. Indo-Aryan superstrate in Mitanni. To their west was the Hittites centered around modern Turkey and with some similarity to IndoEuropean culture, but less than that of the Mittanis. Hittite mythologyIn the south, were the Kassites who took over the core Babylon territories with again bearing strong resemblance to the Vedic culture. Kassite deities. To the east, in Iran, a group of related people called the Medes (Madhya) were emerging in Iran. Linguistic connection might carry some proof for the emergence of Vedic related civilizations all over region (Medes in the center between the Mittanis to the west and Vedic republics to the east). These groups were also the pioneers of Chariot warfare that has become a major part of Indian and Iranian religious works. In China, there was the emergence of the Shang dynasty around the same time Mittanis took over in West Asia and Vedic republic started in India. The similarity in weapons and religious ideas between Indo Europeans & the Shang has led to some speculation that Shang might have been offshoots of Indo-Europeans too. Page on sino-platonic.org and A History of China.Egypt just emerged out of the second intermediate period and began its New Kingdom. This is the period of its most famous pharaohs like Tutankhamun. There were some epic battles including King Ramesses II around this period. This was among the last of the major native empires of Egypt. At the end of this period, Egypt would become greatly tied to the politics of empires around it. In the Americas, there was the Peru based Norte Chico civilization with urban center around Caral and the just emerging Olmec civilization in Mexico. The Chico civilization were among the advanced for their time with a mastery of a variety of food crops and cotton. There is also evidence for some governance structures. Strangely, while they are textiles and big structures, there are no carvings, drawings, statues or other artwork.