 newly liberated classes were now openly adopting western culture and clothes after centuries of domination by the samurais. In the 40 year period from 1872, railways went 400x from 18km to 7100km. Coal production multiplied 30 times. Silk production multiplied 10 times and merchant ships multiplied 60 times.20th century warsThe massive growth of economy, partially helped by lack of competition in Asia, and a modern army brought a very aggressive Japan at the turn of the 20th century. Its first victim was Russian Empire and the defeat of Russia in 1905 was a major coup. Getting recognition from this, Japan fought with the allies in WW1. After WW1 it felt cheated that it got none of the colonies from the losing powers and tried to go on its own. With a very hungry domestic economy, it had to go for more and more resources. This led it to occupy Korea, China and eventually most of East Asia. Their aggression and ambition was matched by Nazis on the west and thus they both entered into a marriage of convenience, although neither side really liked the other. As Japan feared the entry of the US into the war, it tried to preempt by attacking Pearl Harbor in Hawaii. Their gamble failed due to multiple reasons including not attacking Hawaii's oil stores and aircraft carriers. This left US only partially wounded, but very angry. US had its revenge in a war that climaxed with the dropping of atom bombs.Post-war reconstructionJapan was thoroughly beaten and totally disgusted with war. They put in their constitution to effectively outlaw war and put all their energies in economy. US liked such a distraction as that would mean Japan would not become a major threat and also be its big trading partner in Asia, especially after China fell to the Communists in 1949. Gen. Douglas MacArthur was especially instrumental in this transformation. After the Korean war in 1950s and rise of cold war, Japan became US' principal ally in the Pacific - bringing more aid, more technology and more trade. While the war left the infrastructure broken, it left a highly educated and motivated populace who could now rebuild the cities with the state of the art 20th century technology instead of saddled with old infrastructure. Japanese government and its Ministry of International Trade and Industry on its part did a fantastic job pushing their corporations to dominate world trade. With rising education, falling fertility, Japan enjoyed a massive demographic dividend - with parents totally focusing on careers unimpeded by children [or so they thought that time].