 Indira Gandhi in 1970s possessed the maximum possible power a leader could in Indian politics. She brought out enormous changes to the constitution and even threatened to end democracy. But, by the end even she was removed and most of her changes were reversed [other than a few things like the pesky insertions to the Preamble].In the landmark case - Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala, the Supreme Court outlined the Basic structure doctrine and that prevents any large scale changing of the Constitution. Anurag Arya has added a number of other provisions that would impede an ambitious leader.Ultimately, the question is where does the power lie? Power lies not in books and papers, but our faith in those. It lies in the traditions (one such tradition is that the President stays off politics and power play). It takes decades to build those traditions. Power lies in the institutions that take a very long time to create. You could declare yourself to the king of India, but if the bureaucrats would not move and the army & police would not act, your power is worthless. Power lies in really convincing those varied institutions that what you are doing is in their interests. And power lies in connections and how much respect you command with your connections. If you neither have connections nor respect, you don't have much power. Mahatma Gandhi had no legal authority. But, he could do almost whatever wanted to do, by weaving the connections & respect. That is real power - that comes not from inheritance or laws. In countries with weak institutions and democratic traditions, Constitutions are a joke. A number of countries constantly rewrite their Constitutions and it matters very little. Because, people don't have faith in them and power comes from faith [not meaning religion here, but in a variety of symbols]. When people believe that the Constitution is important, you cannot do much. In case of India, democracy has evolved over a century, starting with the Congress party & reinforced with ancient Indian ideals - from Upanishadic. It is very hard to fight those traditions.After nearly two years of Emergency, Indira Gandhi was alone. She no longer had the respect in either the international or national politics. Power comes from weaving the respect and connections. While she had immense power in theory coming from the statute, in practice her power had already gone even before the elections. People no longer bought her ideas for reviving Indian economy. People no longer bought the idea that she was helping the poor. When people don't respect, you have no power. Eventually she had to agree to elections and expectedly lost.