 and Iranians have close relationships. But, we also find that the genetic distance between the various castes of north India and those of various Indian tribes and the south Indians is very, very small. In other words, almost all Indians [north and south] have quite close genetics regardless of this Aryan-Dravidan debate. Also see: Indian ancestry revealedI again accept that Indians and Central Asians do have strong links, but it is equally likely for sparsely populated Central Asians to come via more denser regions [as tribes were moved around] than a billion nation people with very close genetics to all come from a few thousand people group in 3000 years.Here is a very good paper that debunks the massive migration around 1500 BCE in a more formal way. Genetics and the Aryan Debate.Page on sciencedirect.comModeling of the observed haplotype diversities suggests that both Indian ancestry components are older than the purported Indo-Aryan invasion 3,500 YBP. What about the Horse?Various debaters in this topic beat up the dead horse. The apparent absence of the horse in Indus Valley seals while its copious presence is used as the key support for the Aryan Invasion Theory. In the recent decades far more finds of horses in India have been made. Although the issue is far from solved, the belief that there were no horses in the subcontinent before 2000 BCE is fading away. This is discussed in this book: The Quest for the Origins of Vedic Culture : The Indo-Aryan Migration Debate and The Horse and the Aryan Debate by Michel DaninoWhat are the alternatives?There a few other speculations.The migration happened over a long period of time - probably 1000s of years. This would account for India's large population and also be consistent with how the Vedic Indians didn't have written scripts while their companions in Mesopotamia and elsewhere did. The migration started from India instead of Central Asia. Indigenous Aryans. This is still very speculative at the moment and there are again plenty of holes in it. However, it would fit with the collapse of Indus Valley Civilization. As a massive civilization collapsed there around 1500 BCE it is possible for the millions of its inhabitants to migrate in various directions including India, West and Central Asia leading to the widespread chaos of the time. Those millions must have gone somewhere as the civilization collapsed. Page on uwf.eduSummary:The origin of Indo-Europeans in India is a controversial topic and there is no proof from either side of the debate. On both sides there are vested interests - one group wants to prove Hindu civilization as superior and other group bent upon proving it as inferior. The truth suffers inbetween.As mentioned above there are far too many holes in a major migration into India 3500 years Before Present. Although there is not much proof yet, my hunch is that the exodus of Indus Valley civilization was the source of Indo-European cultures. IVC a culture that collapsed that time and whose massive population likely migrated all around from their desertified land. I wish there is more research on that.Also see:Indians are not descendants of Aryans, says new study and ICHR debate on Aryan invasion theory cut short