 The fundamental difference between liberals and conservatives is in how much of the past/present should be preserved for the future. Liberals are permissive and believe in the winds of change. Conservatives on the other want want to preserve the existing structures. Conservatives are more likely to value group memberships [family, race, religion, nation] as groups ensure stability. Liberals tend to value group memberships less [with the exception of labor unions] as groups slow down change.They have different views because they often have different experiences. Conservatives typically come from the dominant groups for whom the present is convenient. Liberals often from the challenger groups for whom change is necessary. Thus, minorities and immigrants are often liberals while someone from a majority community is more likely to be a conservative. This is why an India who might be a liberal in the US might be conservative in India. Again, there are economic conservatives and there are social conservatives. Economic conservatives tend to come from economically dominant groups and social conservatives often come from socially dominant groups. The next experience come from the location. Cities are often fast changing and city economies are built around profiting on change. The presence of a new tech is more like to change the city faster than a village. Thus, city residents are more likely to be liberal [if everything else is equal]. On the other hand, rural residents are more likely to be conservative as change comes less. Not all changes are positive though. City residents are also more likely to get into silly fads too for the same reason.The third experience comes from identity. Those with fairly consistent identities and comfortable in them are slightly more likely to be conservative. Those with multiple, conflicting identities [such as children of mixed racial couples] are not as likely to be conservative. Their identities are often as not strong enough.The final experience comes from prosperity. When things are working well, we often worry about change less. Liberal tendencies are slightly more present. When things don't work well, conservative tendencies are more present as people fear change and long for the rosier past. Europe had a conservative way just before the WWII, then the post-war prosperity brought a liberal wave and a 21st century conservative wave comes again as growth slows down.