 By sheer coincidence or impeccable timing, both of India's nuclear tests came at a time when a US President was on the verge of getting impeached. A President getting impeached is a very rare event and it puts the whole administration in disarray, unable to focus on the world. When a US President is distracted, words of rest of Western allies have no biting power.In 1974, India tested one device and didn't openly state it as a weapon. It called it a peaceful explosion. To prove the point, India conducted the tests on Buddha Jayanthi - the birthday of Buddha. The ambiguity and geopolitical factors of that time probably saved India from sanctions although it later impacted India's technological cooperation with the rest of the world. In 1998, India tested 5 advanced weapons and dropped the charade to declare itself a nuclear power. It again tested the bombs on Buddha's birthday but probably with a wink this time. There was also the politics. In 1998, the bombs were exploded when the right wing BJP was newly in power and US had a lot of uncertainty about the party. They didn't understand BJP as much as they understood Congress and this brought a quick reaction in the form of snctions. There was mutual hatred between the BJP and US government for a long time, until things were mended quite soon after the explosion.The ImpeachmentsIn 1974 (first test), Nixon was very close to being impeached [he eventually resigned before the impeachment] and his Vice President was gone on corruption charges. This left the secretary of state Henry Kissinger to run a headless show in Washington. Kissinger had also softened his stance on India since the 1971 war to liberate Bangladesh, in which US fought on the other side of India. This meant that US reaction was very muted. In 1998 (second test), Clinton was getting impeached few months down the road [later acquitted by the Senate]. He was battling a huge storm inside regarding his sexual affairs. That said, things were not as dire as in 1974 as the rest of the administration was not impacted as much. This left the President to impose sanctions quickly although some critics thought it was still somewhat soft.Another coincidence was that things moved pretty fast in the world of that time that there was hardly anytime to think about it. 1974 tests followed the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war, where Pakistan was split into two and the tests were followed by huge domestic disturbance in India [Emergency]. There was massive inflation and oil crises world over too. It all put the nuclear question in lower priority in both the countries.In case of 1998, again there was the coincidence of a war with Pakistan that now followed the tests in 1999. Then a massive election scandal occurred in 2000 and a few months later September 11 changed the whole world for the US. Again, there were way many things moving around to focus on the nuclear question.