 Imagine this scenario. An enemy nation is just about to launch a nuclear attack on India. A bomb is about to hit Mumbai and kill 10 million people. You are the Indian Prime Minister and the head of your spy agency brings you a plan to kill the opposite general who is about to press the button. If he is dead, the war would come to a halt. The plan is foolproof and you could kill the person & stop the bomb. But, the method is devious. Which is ethical here - letting your spy chief kill that general or letting the nuclear weapon destroy your largest city & all its people? Mahabharata is a treatise on leadership and the moral dilemma they face. Killing, spying are all "unethical", but necessary to protect your people. If Mahabharata was just about "follow the rules and you will be fine", it will not be an epic. Real life cannot be reduced to a mere collection of rules and morals is the key lesson of the epic. Sometimes you have to make tough decisions to make and no matter what you it will be ethical. As a leader, you can break some of the rules if the intentions are right. It is fancy for an ascetic to preach morality, but for a commander in the battlefield to them all literally can be criminal. What if India's Chief of Army Staff drops all his weapons in the middle of the war just because some religious idea struck him? Would you not see that as a criminal negligence? He can be all religious in his own time, but in the battlefield his duty is to make sure India survives. Same for Arjuna.Dharma is about the preservation of righteousness in the society. A Dharma Yuddha is a war to protect that righteousness. If you could win such a war by book, it is good. But, if you cannot you should rather be willing to break the rules of engagement rather risk destroying the entire society. Yudhisthira did everything possible to follow every rule. He made sure he pleased everyone. He acted as a good king, a good brother and a courteous relative. Like every human he had his vices & temptations. By trying to please his cousins and avoid confrontations, he made everyone around him suffer.He lost the kingdom that was his right and was almost killed by his wicked cousins who tried to trap him in a house made of lacquer (Lakshagraha). After years of spending as a commoner he came back with power of Panchalas. His cousins cheated him with an infertile part of the kingdom with no city. Yudhisthira built a city and made the region into a prosperous one. He then went to please his cousins and lost everything. After in exile for 13 years, he came back to get his due right, but was not given. He went as low as getting 5 villages, but even that was not given. Yudhisthira - the epitome of perfection and goodness was losing because he was too inflexible to break the rules. In this process, it was not just he who suffered, but the whole society. Finally, Krishna found no choice but to encourage Yudhisthira to break a couple of the rule. Again, it was not a complete breakdown, but tactically bending some of the rules. It was made in good intention and its outcome ended the war & ensured the society's survival. That makes it a dharma yuddham.Real life cannot be reduced to a mere collection of rules and morals is the key lesson of the epic. If the rules you made up stand in the way of protecting your subjects, be willing to bend/break.