 I don't believe in Aryan Invasion Theory, because there was nothing called Aryans [Indo Europeans is the right term], there is no proof for an invasion [of Indian kingdoms] and it is not a theory [more of a speculation]. The Aryan Race: Time to Forget About It?The Aryan theory is mostly fantasy used by both Indologists and Hindus with the script that a few racially pure [Arya] fair skinned folks riding the chariots just swept past vast chunks of the world, including India, winning the "inferior" dark skinned people who were too weak to fight a handful of invaders. This theory was liked by Hitler, many extremists Hindus as well as many extremist non-Hindus. It is time we put a rest to it. While I do believe that there is a strong commonality between European, Indian and Iranian cultures and there surely were human migrations, I don't believe in the idea that a vast chunk of India is populated by a handful of outsiders who moved around 3500 years ago. Math doesn't add up there. Population doesn't add upIndia was densely populated as early as 500 BCE based on Arrian's and other outsider accounts of India. To account for 50-100 million people who made India's population then after clearing the vast chunks of the subcontinent battling dense tropical jungles, malaria & other diseases, it requires a few thousand years of migrations and not just couple of centuries. India has been invaded so many times in the past and so it is not hard to believe that India was invaded by Central Asians. But, in all the invasions we know of since then [of Afghans, Hunas, Europeans], only political control was changed, not the populace. England came with the most modern of invasions and ruled centuries with all the technology, but with little change in the population itself [Anglo Indians form a miniscule population]. So what was so special in the invasions of circa 1500 BCE that was so different from the later invasions that the population itself changed? How did the cold weather people so swiftly get used to India's brutal climate that no subsequent invader really survive?For a few thousand Central Asians unused to India's weather and diseases, with inferior technology, to just sweep across the subcontinent so efficiently that there is no trace at all for invasions, master agriculture, complete a total domination of culture and multiply into tens of millions requires a major suspension of disbelief. It requires far more proof than what is offered.Writing systemsOne of the migration thesis called the Kurgan hypothesis believes the Aryans migrated into India crossing Mesopotamia. Many of these groups including the Mittanis and Hittites who are closely connected to the Vedas had their own written languages, while the Vedic Indians apparently didn't. How come the Indo-Aryans who migrated past Mesopotamia and whose various branches developed written scripts, forget all that as they enter India? To me, it makes more sense in a reverse migration where the Vedic Indians who didn't have scripts migrated out and learnt written languages as they settled in Mesopotamia and other places creating Mittani, Kassite and Hittite kingdoms.GeneticsThis is again controversial. There is some evidence that Indians, Central Asians