 It doesn't appear that intolerance is increasing when looking at statistics. One way to do is by measuring communal violence that also includes hate killing of writers etc. Factly aggregates public data and here is a statistical analysis on this. India had 57 communal incidents per month in the last 4 years & 85% of these incidents happen in just 8 statesIt doesn't seem to be increasing. In 2014 there were lesser incidents of communal violence than previous years. The raw data is here: Page on 100.47.132. People have been beating the dead cow for years:  Mysterious death of cows sparks off clashes in Agra [2008]. In 1966, 8 hindus were killed after massive riots for banning beef. 1966 anti-cow slaughter agitation. Godhra riots & cow riots have been going for centuries. Godhra riot in 1854, trouble over cow-protection in 1893: the roots of discordAgain, media makes is appear that the violence is one-way. The data shows violence can come from multiple directions right-left-center. Some examples: Anti cow slaughter book writer thrashed and PETA India Activists Attacked By Bhopal Residents For Campaigning For A "Vegan Eid" The bigger point we need to talk is:The state of police in states like UP, West Bengal, Gujarat & Bihar. This is where a most of violence happen. These are also among the states with the lowest police to citizens ratio. How do you plan to manage communal violence with 1 police per 1500 people?UP has the most police scarcity & strangely no one talks about it even after so much violence under all governments over the years. Even in recent Dadri incident, the police seemed to be sleeping when loudspeakers called for violence against the poor victim. Whether someone likes beef eating or not, the fact is that no one has a right to physically attack another individual. Thus, it is not a question of intolerance, but of poor security. State vs personal freedoms: How much the state can interfere in individual life. In India, we seem to have way too many interference from outside elements - neighbors, society, government. The conversation should be about ancient Indian ethos of giving individual liberties. Lopsided fight: Each group complains only when members of their own ideology is attacked. We keep mum when a member of opposite ideology or political group are attacked. We need to fight violence itself, rather than just "violence against x". Instead of right vs. left, we should actually focus on educated vs. violence. Ultimately no one should be killed/injured for their opinions and diet. That has been happening in India for a long time. We need to have better policing and better security to manage that. Finally, India has had violence and murders related to one's beliefs for a long time. This week, a flower vendor in Karnataka [who also worked for Bajrang Dal] was hacked to death by a group of Muslims for campaigning on cow slaughter. 4 held for Moodbidri activist's murder. Does it mean India has turned anti-Hindu and can we generalize that about a whole community? That would be stupid. One swallow doesn't a summer make. References:India had 57 communal incidents per month in the last 4 years & 85% of these incidents happen in just 8 statesThink India has become more communal under Modi? The numbers will disappoint youPolice to people ratio: 3 cops for every VIP but just 1 for 761 commoners 