 Sanders is a bad candidate because he doesn't fit the role of the President - the chief dealmaker, the chief diplomat, the chief cheerleader, the chief commander.Relationship with other politicians: Presidents don't create legislation. They push the Congress to do so. I read his policies posted in Where does Bernie Sanders stand on the issues? and I don't know how he can get these legislations pushed with his anti-Beltway attitude and the inability to influence the centrist congressmen. When Presidents don't command respect and influence in the Congress, governance can come to a stop.Relationships with other nations: A President is the most visible image of the nation that rest of the world sees. I don't often like Obama's policies, but I respect his stature. He commands respect not just inside US, but all over the world. This respect is not important just for boosting American egos, but to actually convince the rest of the world/UN to get things done. World is a dysfunctional place and Presidents get things done with charm. Does Sanders have the charm to convince us non-Americans?Relationship with American organizations: How effectively can President Sanders cajole/convince the Corporations to do the right thing if he is considered anti-Corporation? How effectively can he communicate his ideas so that the corporations and various organizations work for him, instead of sabotaging him? Presidents can't dictate stuff and have to look for back door ways to get stuff done. Someone said, he is unpopular because he says the negatives. Actually, "Fear Uncertainty & Doubt" are great weapons for politicians and all great politicians have raised enough fear in their constituency while also assuring that they are the one to solve it. Jimmy Carter was a smart man who ran on the plank of being a Beltway outsider. Despite his best intentions, he did very little to inspire public confidence at a time when energy prices and Iran was getting out of control. Woodrow Wilson was the most intelligent person to ever sit in the Oval office and he died a frustrated man unable to get Congress moving. If you want the US to do business with its various constituencies and the rest of the world, you need a pragmatic individual with charisma. At a time when Middle East and elsewhere is melting, you need someone who can get his hand dirty cutting deals, than playing the holier-than-thou attitude.