 United Nations is a relic of the Second World War. It is a term used by Franklin Roosevelt as a synonym for Allies. It was officially put on Jan 1, 1942, 3 weeks after the attack on Pearl Harbor by Japan. Roosevelt viewed this struggle as a world fighting back against Japan and Germany. The structure they put in place to fight the Axis became a major world body after the war. History of the United Nations. For Roosevelt, Republic of China was a critical part of his fight. Roosevelt's initial attention was on Japan that had badly bruised US ego at the Pearl Harbor. Nearly 75% of the Japanese army was fighting in China that time and Roosevelt needed China to play an important role in his Pacific war to lock up the Japanese & make things easy for the US. Roosevelt called US, UK, USSR and China - the four key allies - as the four policemen to manage the world. This was not liked by Churchill who was fighting primarily in Europe where China had no role. At the end of the war, Churchill got France to join these 4 policemen as a tradeoff for Roosevelt's inclusion of China. Roosevelt also tried to get Brazil to be the 6th, but Churchill & Stalin said no. Chinas Emergence as a Great Power Began with FDRWhile Roosevelt and Churchill got their friends enter the UN Security Council, Stalin could not get anyone in. He thus feared being outnumbered in the body. Stalin pressed for a veto for all members and got it. This way he was no longer isolated in the body with full powers to veto what the other 4 members wanted. In 1945, India was a weak, impoverished nation at its nadir and was not fully out of colonialism. Thus, it was not even in contention for the body. Even if India were given the role, it was unlikely for India to play it as it neither had the intention nor had the resources to play a world policeman. In 1949, Mao's troops overpowered Republic of China and shattered Roosevelt's dream of China playing a major ally in the Pacific. US and UK took away China's membership and gave it away to the rebel government that now moved to Taiwan. In the 1970s, after much pressure from rest of the world and Nixon's overtures with China, the latter got back its security council's membership. Had Roosevelt known that Republic of China would someday collapse to Mao and become a challenge to the US, China might not have gotten a membership in UNSC.Coming back to UNSC expansion, the system was built with a lot of compromises as seen above and the existing powers are not going to give up that easily. A change to the body would also question the relevance of post-WW2 reality and such a question might not be good for many of the powers. Unless there is a major global crisis, changes will not happen to existing power arrangement. India has to wait until that crisis and hope to stay strong enough that time. It can then try to negotiate its price for involvement.