 There is nothing specific about India here. Discussing politics is fraught with a lot of dangers both online and offline. Regardless of the side you are in, you will get a regular amount of garbage and harassment. Everyday I open my notifications, 5-6 comments fall into the abusive category. Some of them simple garbage like one below and others complex garbage with unprintable statements. Sometimes the commentors really get to the point instead of adding all those sentences around:You don't think this is harassment? It is and done by people often from leftwing in my case. However, I cannot generalize that to say leftwingers are harassers. It is just that users of all political groups harass people who don't agree to their idea.This sort of trolling is the reality regardless of the political subject you take up. The higher the stakes, the more venomous is this harassment. Thus, you might be able to get away with a controversial topic related to a small city in Croatia than say a major political topic in US. In religion related topics the venom can be even more severe on both sides. Some tips on handling this:Be reasonable: Temper your statements and be respectful in your criticisms and gracious in accepting one. It will not solve everything, but it will reduce the attacks. For instance, saying "India is s***, the nation s****" will expectedly bring back sharper comments. The question details fails this point #1. Be the solution: There are things people hold dear and when you try to abuse those things, people react bad. Don't fight the people practicing an idea, but just stick to the idea itself. Even in the idea focus on the bad features alone. The more specific it is, better is the response. Example 1: India is a shitty place for women. BAD Example 2: Female infanticide is rampant in places like Dharmapuri. We need to extend the cradle baby scheme & have stringent punishments. BETTER.Report & block: For some groups, politeness doesn't work. Shouting match doesn't work either. Look to use "Report" and "block" feature where real abuse is concerned. I block 2-3 people a day for severe abuse. Abuse grows proportional to the number of people you reach.Accept: The moment you are expressing a strong opinion and hoping people accept it, you are in politics. At the end of the day, politics is an aggressive place no matter what side you are in. That is a sobering and disgusting reality.