 Ankit SethiGreat answers here. One other point I would add is that movie critics have seen a lot more movies than the average movie-goer, even most cinephiles. Not only is their depth of experience with film greater, but also they've consciously worked on widening their palette to appreciate films of diverse and international genres and film traditions. This places them in the unique position of being able to connect the dots and see a bigger picture (no pun intended) which they share with interested audiences through their writing.Here's a couple of examples - Rome, Open City (Roberto Rossellini, 1945),  La Dolce Vita (Federico Fellini, 1960), and  La Grande Bellezza (Paolo Sorrentino, 2013) are three Italian films by different directors set in different decades and filmed in different styles. But what movie critics see is that the three films each manage to capture particular, temporary, and very compelling moments in the cultural history of Rome, and taken together form a historical trilogy of sorts; On a similar note, Persona (Ingmar Bergman, 1966), 3 Women (Robert Altman, 1977), and Mulholland Drive (David Lynch, 2001) form a triptych on the common theme of feminine identity.Being able to illuminate this meta-narrative for the benefit of filmgoers who can't spend the same amount of time on casual entertainment, is one of the most unique services a film critic can provide. Critics can frame the context around a particular actor's current film role based on his career arc in the past (eg. how Adam Sandler's early comedies inform his role in the stylish romantic drama Punch-Drunk Love). They can explain how a director's technique is evolving over time, what traditions he used to be enamored with in his early days (Wes Anderson and the French New Wave) and what new influences he seems to be channeling now (Stefan Zweig in Budapest Hotel) and how they're affecting his style.Critics can also connect a cinematic legacy with a historical legacy, cutting across different styles and personalities. For example, in his book, Film After Film: (Or, What Became of 21st Century Cinema?), Village Voice critic J Hoberman collects his numerous review columns and commentaries published over the course of the 2000s and wonderfully relates them to the heightened events after 9/11 and the mindset of the post 9/11 American zeitgeist in both the general populace and the film industry. By prefixing fresh new commentaries before each older piece, a large part of the book turns into one long examination of the Bush and early Obama years and their reflection and impact on the popular films of the time. This is the kind of expansive, panoramic view of an art form that only critics can provide.Bad critics can tend to view their insights as little baubles to be coveted and teasingly flashed to readers in order to impress them, or just as references to be understood by their colleagues and uber-viewers who are in-the-know. Good critics can distill and COMMUNICATE these ideas to encourage a viewer to take up challenging films or find salvageable objects of interest in movies otherwise dismissable as trash.