 Ankit SethiA2AWith due respect to Stephanie Vardavas' answer, I find her strategies to be heavily contingent on a majority or even a plurality of one's friends having the sort of good tastes you're having trouble discovering currently. My experience has not been like that so I prefer a measure of independence in discovery.My advice would be to try and enter the cultural conversation going on online. Vibrant communities exist that are passionate about every genre of fiction you might be interested in. I'm a literary fiction person and I actually do prefer contemporary books to older classics, so I started out by reading up the recent Pulitzer and Booker winners, and discovering sites that review their works or comment upon them in some form. To give you an example, The Millions and Flavorwire are two websites I could give the gold seal of personal approval to for book recommendations. They have tons of lists, essays and other commentary to help you get the flavor of the author, and most importantly, feel part of a cultural conversation of worth if none in your social circle are aware of these authors. Which is the goal you indicated with your Murakami quote, right?If you'll allow me to go on for a bit - that quote you cited has always been a bit of a brainsnare for me. I think about how it's true but at the same time it's undercut but how there are levels to the whole thing. I know some crappy books (Coelho etc.) that everyone I know has read. I think about this quote and feel better about myself because I've avoided ever getting into them. But then if I focus a little closer to my subset of literary type friends, we all  are cool about hating him and we all love the actually profound and beautiful writers, guys like Murakami in fact. But then this quote starts to bug me again, and I think - oh okay, I'm slightly better than the rest of my friends because I've read Jonathan Franzen, unlike everybody else I know (context: talking about Indian friends). But then I go online, to Flavorwire perhaps, and learn that reading Franzen is such a WASP cliche and that he's been on the cover of effin' TIME magazine (elite among the hallowed world of dentist waiting room periodicals) and that sticks a rod up my high horse and I'm back online searching for something absolutely no one would have got to yet, and before you know it, it's 3 a.m. and I'm on a Tumblr page called "Writers No One Reads" and I skeptically scroll through and all I'm thinking is - "Jeez, this looks fun...NOT."So I guess what I'm trying to say here is while that quote has some wisdom in it, there're some serious nausea inducing whirligigs involved when you factor in the diverse, fractured and intersecting social contexts, both real and virtual, in which we all operate. And when you've been in the merry-go-round long enough, it all starts to come around and before you know it you're considering a hipsterish contrarian reading of The Alchemist.Again, all of which is all to say... best of luck!