 The problem is glaringly obvious to everybody else; guns are far too easy to obtain in the US and that makes these kind of attacks inevitable. The fact that so many Americans are in denial of this is a source of incredulity in Britain and, I suspect, elsewhere in Europe too.Allowing ordinary civilians to arm themselves with lethal weaponry causes a lot more problems than it can ever solve. It hasn't stopped the federal government from becoming all-powerful as the founding fathers believed it would and it doesn't help the good guys defend themselves from the bad guys, because real life is not so simple as "good guys" and "bad guys".The argument goes that the criminals and terrorists will always be able to get hold of guns anyway, so it's better that law-abiding citizens can have them too to restore the balance of power between good and evil. There are several problems with this.First, how many school shootings in America have been carried out by terrorists or criminal gangs, and how many were carried out by previously law-abiding citizens who did not have an existing criminal record or any reason to be under observation by the authorities? Professional criminals don't go around shooting up schools because it isn't good business; it doesn't provide them with an income stream and it attracts a lot of attention. And while terrorists have targeted schools in places like Nigeria, in the West they've historically preferred economic targets like the airline industry, railways and offices. School shootings are the domain of the disgruntled misfit, loner and attention-seeker.Second, most criminals in places like Britain don't have guns either. The penalties for possession of a firearm are so high that it's not worth having one on you (or even in your house) because it's a permanent piece of evidence the police can find and use to lock you up. Criminals who need a gun for a specific job, like a hit or just to intimidate a rival, will deposit the gun with a patsy and only carry it themselves for the shortest possible time. The total supply of guns available to criminals in the UK is so low that there have even been cases of the same gun being used by opposite sides at different times in a conflict between criminal gangs. Likewise, it's much easier to track the flow of guns to terrorist groups in an environment where guns are unusual and not part of the normal landscape. During the Troubles in Northern Ireland, British intelligence had a fairly good idea of exactly how many guns