 Because, despite the bad press it gets, the Conservative Party is not an ideologically-driven machine which hates the poor. There exists within it a range of political opinion and methodologies.One of the principles which binds today's Conservatives together is a broad commitment to equality of opportunity not equality of outcome, but this is a fairly vague principle that can be interpreted in a number of ways. The extent to which individual Tory MPs think individuals born into a disadvantaged environment should be given government assistance varies greatly. A common theme though is that transfer payments should be seen by their recipients as a temporary crutch rather than a permanent lifestyle choice; a safety net not a hammock. Some see tax credits as a useful way of encouraging people to leave a benefits-only environment and accept low-paid work.The danger is that tax credits for the working poor simply encourages employers to put a lower value on unskilled labour because it is effectively subsidised by the state. This doesn't provide the clearly defined route out of benefits dependency that many Tories are looking for. They would prefer that the market price for labour incorporates the true cost faced by workers rather than a subsidy, and they support the tax credit cuts on that basis. But there is also a pragmatism which stems from a desire to keep getting elected. Tory MPs who won their seats from the LibDems at the last election are mindful that they need to be seen as more compassionate if they are to retain their seats next time around. They recognise that they should be seen to do more for the poorest in society. And even though Corbyn's Labour doesn't represent a significant electoral threat, the merest possibility of him becoming Prime Minister in future (and all the horror that entails) motivates them to occupy the political centre-ground and ensure it doesn't happen. Those MPs are opposing the cuts to tax credits.At the 2015 Conservative Party conference we saw Boris positioning himself as the leadership candidate promoting this centrist position, with Osborne representing more of the same and May advocating a move to the right. Whether Boris is the natural leader of that faction and whether or not people trust him is another matter, but he is attempting to define the manifesto of the One-Nation Tory.