 Diana didn't play by the rules and, worse still, she wasn't prepared to carry on "taking one for the team".Being a royal in the modern era isn't a case of lying on a bear-skin chaise longue while eunuchs stand by your side peeling grapes and dropping them into your mouth. It's a tough gig which requires a great deal of personal sacrifice and, while Diana wasn't entirely oblivious to this, she was a naive young woman who didn't fully realise what she was signing up for. You toe the party line, you don't make a fool of yourself or the monarchy and if you're not happy you just have to suck it up and find a discreet outlet, preferably one such as going fishing in the Scottish Highlands.Diana either wasn't able or willing to play along. The knowledge and experience she gained of public relations was turned to her own benefit and not that of the family. She persuaded us with consummate ease that she was the Queen of Hearts and her husband was a cold fish. Her role was to produce an heir and keep quiet but instead she put herself in a situation which still gives rise to rumour and innuendo long after her death:- Diana's son Prince Harry (left) and Major James Hewitt (right) with whom Diana admitted having an adulterous relationship. The defining moment of the decline in Diana's relationship with the royal family was her interview with Martin Bashir on the BBC's Panorama in 1995: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Her performance broke every rule in the book. She not only admitted her own infidelity but also confirmed that of her husband. It effectively forced the case for their divorce and she then further annoyed the family by announcing it herself.There is no doubt that Diana did a great deal of creditable charity work but there is little other reason to suggest that she was the kindest princess who had ever lived. Likewise, it might be a little strong to say that the Royal Family loathed her, although they may have come close after Panorama first aired. It was an unfortunate union which didn't end well for anybody.