 If Labour wants to lure back voters who deserted them for UKIP in 2015, they need to be honest with themselves about why it happened. It isn't sufficient to say that people voted for UKIP because Labour were perceived as Tory-lite, because in many ways UKIP are more Tory than the Tories themselves. Rather, erstwhile Labour supporters opted for UKIP because they were not part of the political establishment, and that is where Corbyn has some credentials of his own to offer. Although he has been in parliament since 1983 he is also known as a maverick, and he may be able to trade on that to woo disaffected voters.In terms of actual policy, the obvious principle that Corbyn personally shares with UKIP is opposition to the EU. Like his mentor Tony Benn before him, Corbyn sees the EU as a capitalist stitch-up, guaranteeing freedom of movement for capital and thereby limiting the ability of individual member state governments to control it. His problem is that the majority of the Parliamentary Labour Party support Britain's membership of the EU, and he would need to conduct something of a purge before he could get the party to adopt a pro-exit policy.Beyond the EU issue, it's difficult to see any ideological common ground. Despite historical claims to be a libertarian party, UKIP's manifesto is essentially ultra-conservative in nature. Their opposition to the EU is based not on concerns about capital but the opposite; imposition of social frameworks and unrestrained movement of people. So even though Corbyn and UKIP might both want to leave the EU, they do so for different reasons. Corbyn has no common ground with the xenophobic, Daily Mail-reading contingent of UKIP's support at all.It would also be a grave mistake to assume that "working class" voters are inclined to support left-wing politicians and that therefore Corbyn has their support sewn up. Thatcher had strong support in that demographic in the eighties and the left/right paradigm is not important; it is more valuable to be seen as a conviction politician who stands up for their values whatever they may be. That was Farage's appeal and, in that sense, personalities are more important than policies when trying to win those votes back.