 Personal taxation in the UK is low by Western European standards, but high compared to the US.The basic rate of income tax is 20%, but you do not pay anything on the first 10,600 that you earn in any given tax year. When your yearly annual earnings exceed 42,385 you pay 40% on whatever you earn over that amount. There is also a 45% band on income higher than 150k which was introduced as a "temporary measure" by the outgoing Labour government in 2010, but few crane operators would be affected by that.As well as income tax, UK employees are subject to national insurance (NI) at 12% on earnings over 155 per week, and 2% on earnings over 815 per week. Despite the name this is really just another income tax, although the number of years you have paid NI will be taken into account if you intend to retire in the UK.This is where things get complicated, because NI is not paid on company dividends. Historically, independent contractors have avoided NI by setting up limited companies and paying themselves a nominal wage, then distributing the rest of the earnings to themselves as dividends. This loophole was all but closed in 1999 via legislation known in the tax industry as IR35.However, there are still advantages for the employer (and in some cases the employee) of people being paid as sub-contractors, so the practice continues. Post-IR35, it is unlikely that you will be expected to set up your own company and so you are likely to be paid as a self-employed individual, which in theory means you have fewer employment rights. Even that isn't the end of it though, as more recent legislation extends employment rights to contractors if they have worked for the same company for a certain length of time.All income tax and NI are subtracted from employee's wages before you are paid, so if you are an employee you do not need to keep any money aside to meet your tax bill. If you are a sub-contractor though, you will probably be given your full wages and be expected to submit a tax return at the end of the year. Most high-street accountants will offer payroll services and tax advice to contractors in this position. On balance, it's much easier for you to be an employee.You can calculate your net salary using online calculators such as this:The Salary Calculator - 2015 / 2016 Tax CalculatorThat calculator says that if you earn 175 per day and work 240 days per year, you will earn 42k gross and 31,647 after tax.