 Conservatives - WIN. In the absence of a viable opposition, the next election is the Tories' to lose. Only a mutiny within their own ranks or a major financial catastrophe in the run-up to the next election can change that.Liberal Democrats - WIN. The logical destination for former New Labour voters who can't face voting for the Tories. They didn't know who to vote for in 2015 because the Lib Dems were tainted by the coalition but those wounds will heal under Farron's leadership.SNP - WIN. As Labour now seem unlikely to win the 2020 election, the Scots face another ten years of Tory rule. That plays into the SNP's hands very nicely because it strengthens their case for independence. Plus, if a grand coalition of the left did somehow manage to scrape together a coalition victory, the SNP would be in a very powerful position.Sinn Fein - WIN. Corbyn is their friend and would cut Northern Ireland off from the UK tomorrow if he could. Corbyn effectively gives them the voice in Westminster that they don't want to be seen to use.UKIP - WIN/LOSE. The increasing polarisation of British politics means that UKIP are no longer the chief party of protest because that's a role Labour is assuming for itself. However, Corbyn adds weight to the anti-EU voice and, although he will be keeping quiet about it in public, those in UKIP who are only interested in getting Britain out of Europe will be encouraged. The sands have shifted and perhaps an EU exit is no longer unthinkable. UKIP could be finished as a party but their cause is anything but.Plaid Cymru - NEUTRAL. They seem to like Corbyn's politics but that may mean he wins some votes back from their supporters. Probably not much in it.SDLP - LOSE, probably. Sinn Fein look like the go-to nationalist party in Corbyn's UK.Labour - LOSE, probably. Labour will regain its self-respect, but at the cost of electoral success. When the honeymoon is over a period of in-fighting will ensue and we will see what happens then, but it's likely to be messy.DUP and UUP - LOSE. The unionists are now dependent on the Conservatives staying in power, whereas before there was a unanimous and almost total commitment amongst English parties to NI remaining part of the UK. Greens - LOSE big time. Corbyn has adopted most of their manifesto and he has a bigger party to throw behind it. What are the Greens for now?