 Not by any definition of socialism that I accept.Part of the problem here is that the word "socialism" has become almost meaningless as it means so many different things to different people. Over the last hundred years such an astonishing range of atrocities and economic disasters have been foisted upon the world by people calling themselves socialists that modern socialism has become a wearying process of redefinition and revisionism. Some would have you believe that any system other than unrestrained anarcho-capitalism is socialism. If there is a government which levies taxes in order to provide a public service, that is evidence of socialism in action. The government builds roads and organises a water supply? Socialism. Schools for the poor and social security payments for the unemployed. All socialism!Such a broad definition of socialism is nonsense. To be meaningful, any definition of socialism must address ownership of the means of production in order to contrast it with capitalism. Socialism promotes common ownership of the means of production, either by the state or perhaps by decentralised workers councils, as opposed to private ownership as in capitalism. It is not enough to have a generous welfare state, such as exists across most of northern Europe, if the majority of production rests in private hands. The relationship between socialism and common ownership has been well established through time, not least in the British Labour Party's Clause IV, which was finally removed from the party's constitution at Tony Blair's behest in 1995. An economic system which combines mostly privately-owned means of production with some state-owned production or significant economic intervention is described as a mixed economy, and a political system in which an elected government promotes a mixed economy incorporating a generous welfare state is best described as social democracy. These are the systems which operate in Scandinavia.Furthermore, faced with concerns about the sustainability of their model, Scandinavian countries have been liberalising their economies and moving away from socialism in recent years, rather than toward it. Personal tax rates have fallen from their post-war highs, while Sweden has been busily privatizing its education and healthcare sectors for the last twenty years:Private healthcare: the lessons from SwedenSweden proves that private profit improves services and influences policyCapitalism and private enterprise are alive and well in northern Europe and it is an abuse of terminology to describe the Scandinavian economic model as socialism.