 the paramilitaries had, where they were stored and who controlled them.School shootings happen because of an over-supply of guns. We all knew kids at school who gave us a hard time and who we probably fantasized about exacting some revenge on, and there's always a few who will make that into a reality with whatever means they have at their disposal. Teenage boys do a lot of dumb stuff. If they live in an environment where they can acquire lethal force without raising any eyebrows, bad things will happen from time to time and you won't know where it's going to happen or when.As for the solution, that's a bit more difficult to identify. You can't just get rid of all the guns in America because it was a frontier society until relatively recently in its history and there is still an ingrained culture of gun ownership which promotes guns as normal and healthy. There would be a messy revolt if you simply tried to outlaw all guns across the country tomorrow, but perhaps the big cities could be demilitarised first as they have tried to do in Chicago. There is no sound justification for people in densely populated urban areas to carry guns. And maybe the next step would be to outlaw people carrying guns beyond the boundaries of their own property. At least then you would be in a position to arrest anyone on their way to school with a weapon. A gradual cultural change is required, in which Americans start to recognise the prevalence of guns in society as a threat rather than a safeguard.The most batshit-crazy idea I've heard is that school shootings could be prevented by arming teachers as a matter of course. All that does is increase the supply of guns in the classroom still further. Who do you fancy in the struggle to get to her handgun; fifty-year-old Mrs Miggins who teaches history or a seventeen-year-old boy who has watched a few survivalist videos on YouTube and has the element of surprise? By the time Mr Hardman the football coach has stormed the classroom with his Uzi, the kid has wiped out half his classmates already. Seen from the other side of the Atlantic, anyone who believes that teachers need guns is living in some kind of dystopian horror movie.Finally, I don't think there are any more mentally unstable people per capita in the US than there are anywhere else. If you believe that then you should try going to France sometime, where neurosis seems to be part of the national identity. The difference is that in the US, they can all lay their hands on a gun.