 That is indeed an odd, and disturbing, question."Fair" is an entirely subjective judgement and the concept of fairness in relation to prices is ambiguous. One definition of a "fair" price is that it accurately reflects supply and demand in a free market, another is that all the people who want or need the product can afford it, another still is that it rewards labour at a sustainable level. It's difficult to make any of those judgements with regard to slavery. The whole point about selling a slave is that it does not represent a free and fair transaction conducted to benefit all parties. There is a massive element of violence and coercion that cannot be disregarded.Notwithstanding that rather important issue, the market value of a slave is highly dependent on some fairly volatile variables. Supply is determined by how many slaves you can capture and subjugate, while demand is determined by the willingness of employers to purchase slave labour. Even if slavery were to be legal, that does not make it morally acceptable. Slave owners are likely to attract intense criticism, potentially reducing demand significantly.Alternatively you could calculate the nominal "fair" value of slave labour by considering the cost of paying someone minimum wage for a few years to perform the same work and subtracting their living expenses (risk of illness, death, mutiny or escape would mean you wouldn't account for more than a few years). This may be where the figure of $20k comes from.However, it turns out that real slave market prices are much lower than this. The most high-profile open trading of slaves in 2015 is conducted by ISIS, who do enough of it to have established a tariff [1]. Children under nine years old cost $165, adolescent girls go for about $124 and women over 40 cost as little as $41. Their duties are not typically agricultural in nature, but in a free market they do tend to attract higher wages than farm labouring. In that context, $100 for an agricultural labourer sounds like an upper limit.[1] Islamic State sex slave price list authentic, $165 for a child - UN 