 I don't have a plan. Nor do I have a plan for what to do if the interest rate on my mortgage went up to 30%, what to do if I'm attacked by a rutting stag while cycling through my local park, or what to do if I am diagnosed with a terminal illness tomorrow. All these things might happen but they are quite unlikely and I don't need to screw up the rest of my life planning for them.Violent home invasions are an overstated threat because the overwhelming majority of people who might break into your house would prefer to do it when you are not there. They are not looking for a confrontation, they just want to steal some stuff that they can sell and be on their way. Most often, if a burglar does accidentally enter your home while you are in and you announce your presence by switching a light on or making a noise, they'll be running away sharpish.The exception to this is if you have been specifically targeted because the criminal knows you and wants to exact some revenge or retribution. If you're not mixed up with criminal gangs this is very unlikely to happen to you. You could get unlucky and be the random victim of some psychopath who wants to break into a stranger's house and do unspeakable things to them, but if you are actively planning for such an event you probably watch too many horror movies. Furthermore, it's unlikely that anyone willing to invade your home while you are in it is going to warn you in advance or knock politely before storming in, so you're going to need to sit with a loaded gun within easy reach every minute of every day for it to do you any good. And if it isn't locked away safely the chances of your gun being used to shoot you or someone you love, either by accident or in a moment of anger or stupidity, exceeds the benefit of any protection it offers you. Guns kept in homes are more likely to be involved in a fatal or nonfatal accidental shooting, criminal assault, or suicide attempt than to be used to injure or kill in self-defense.- Injuries and deaths due to firearms in the home.The negative consequences of keeping a gun in your house are worse than the consequences of not having one. It doesn't guarantee your safety in the unlikely event that someone breaks into your house to confront you and it introduces lethal force into your everyday environment. Where I live, things like this don't happen:Chicago boy, 6, accidentally shoots, kills brother, 3: police