 There are three main factions who want Britain out of the European Union, whom I shall glibly refer to as the xenophobes, the Little Englanders and the socialists. The xenophobes believe that Immigration is a major problem. As the EU guarantees freedom of movement, they see immigration from Eastern Europe in particular as a source of cheap labour who come to "take British jobs". They overlook the simple principle that more population equals higher demand, and that someone living in Britain while doing a decent job for a competitive wage is creating new opportunities for someone else. Some of the xenophobes also believe that many immigrants are "benefit tourists" who come to Britain in order to take advantage of our generous welfare system, again overlooking the simple principle that people who are dynamic enough to emigrate are rarely lazy or workshy. Xenophobes read the Daily Mail and the Daily Express, two tabloid newspapers which pander to their fears and prejudices.The Little Englanders don't like the idea of England (or the United Kingdom, but usually just England) being part of a wider community. There is some crossover with the xenophobes but their focus is more on EU regulations imposed on the UK by Brussels (seat of the European Parliament). They lap up hyperbolic articles in the Daily Mail which propagate euromyths such as the ban on bent bananas:Guide to the best euromythsLittle Englanders don't want the EU to have any jurisdiction over internal affairs in the UK. They don't want EU working directives, they don't want the European Court of Human Rights (which is separate institution to the EU in any case) and they don't want big, bad Brussels telling us what to do and spending all our money.The socialists have a completely different problem with the EU. They don't read the Daily Mail or the Daily Express and they don't have a problem with immigration; their problem is that the EU is committed to Free Markets and is a bulwark of Capitalism. By guaranteeing freedom of movement of Capital, the EU effectively prevents member states from implementing the controls required to enforce confiscatory taxation and other anti-business policies. The flagbearer for socialist opposition to the EU was the late Tony Benn, erstwhile mentor to the new Labour (UK Political Party) leader Jeremy Corbyn:[I am against] the Treaty of Rome which entrenches laissez faire as its philosophy and chooses bureaucracy as its administrative method.- Tony Benn - WikiquoteThese factions have formed an uneasy alliance ahead of the EU membership referendum:EU referendum: New 'exit' group launches its campaign - BBC NewsIn addition to the above there is also a libertarian faction, whose objection to the EU is a consequence of its bureaucratic, centralised nature and the lack of accountable democracy. They like the idea of a free trade area but don't want the additional burden of government the EU brings with it, and their case for leaving is based on the questionable assumption that they would be able to negotiate a free trade deal with the remainder of the union. Thanks to Richard Hayman-Joyce for pointing out the omission.