 James AltucherI was the CEO so I went on the call. It was shortly after Tupac died. His mom wanted to put together a CD of all his leftover songs. I was pitching to do the website. We had been in business for two years and I had stayed at my fulltime job for almost 18 months before I felt confident enough to jump and be permanent CEO. We had 12 employees, about 15 clients. Life was good. Until I became CEO. Then life became very bad. At Tupac's manager's office, I had a CD of all of our work. He had a Windows PC. I had never used a Windows machine before. Only Macs and Unix machines, thanks to my stellar computer science undergraduate and graduate education. He said, "Ok, this is great. We all love your stuff. Why don't you show me what's on the CD."I couldn't. "I can't," I said. "What?" "I've never used a Windows machine before. I don't know how to put the CD in." "You mean to tell me you're pitching to do all of our work and you don't know how to use a computer?""Just this computer." He started to laugh. I packed my bag. I put the CD away. I was turning red. He kept repeating, "You don't even know how to use a computer." I left. I was ashamed. When the elevator opened I still heard him laughing. I got back to the office. Everyone pretended like they weren't paying attention but they knew this was a big deal. This job was worth three months of payroll to them. Someone asked me, "So?" I said, "It's looking good. I think we'll get the deal."We never got the deal. We never heard from Tupac's team again. I was a failure. This was my first week on the job. That starts to describe what it's like to be CEO of a startup. 1. You feel like a failure all the time. In school, if you get 90% of the questions right, you get a grade of an A. When you're CEO - a good CEO - you'll get about 50% of your decisions right. 50% of decisions right is an "F". So our entire education for 16+ years teaches us to feel like a failure almost all of the time in the real world. 2. You feel like you are kissing *ss all the time. Your best employees will leave you if you don't pay attention to their every whim and insecurity. Your customers have to think they are your friends. Maybe I was a bad CEO but my three times being a CEO I sold two of the companies for $15 million and then $10 million and the other one sold long after they kicked me out. So maybe I was bad, maybe I was good. Who knows? I was CEO and stuff happened. Also, I've been an advisor to many good and bad CEOs. I would do events at charities. I would let clients or employees or shareholders call me at four in the morning to tell me their life problems. I went to a therapist with the cliche, "I don't even know who I am anymore," because I was constantly pretending to be everyone's friend. Other CEOs, I feel, legitimately become people's friends. They go out to dinners. They go on vacations together with their customers. Some CEOs are cool with this.I wasn't like that. I liked to be by myself. It's almost the "in" thing now to be an introvert (it used to be "Aspbergers" and before that it was "ADHD" - there's always a cool disease in the CEO world) but the reality was, I was introverted. It's not like I disliked people. It's just that I only liked the people I was close to and I lost touch with all of them when I started being a CEO. 3. Nobody likes you. At some point, everybody hates you. Your clients think at least one project was sub-par. They have to think that. They are constantly being pitched by other companies. So if you are not the flavor of the week then something you did was WRONG. You have to deal with it. Your employees will at some point talk behind your back and it won't be pleasant. You can tell how many people are talking behind your back by how many cigarette butts are right outside the emergency door to the back-stairs. The more butts they are, the more employees are talking about you. Is this paranoia? Maybe. But it's true. At some point you have to fire employees. At some point you have to put employees on jobs they don't want to do. And at some point you have to pay employees less (usually far less) than the value they are giving you and you have to give them some rationale for why you are doing that ("we're going to keep growing and you have stock options" or "this is going to be a great stepping stone for your career" - hopefully these things are true but while you say them you feel like you are lying.)Your partners now have someone to blame when things go wrong and things are always going wrong. Like when we forgot to pay the medical insurance of all the employees, it was my fault. Or when we couldn't get the landlord's permission to sell our company (yes, you ALWAYS have to get your landlord's permission because now he will have a new tenant), or when everyone has to work for the weekend except for you and you really don't want to show up and sit around and do nothing while everyone is working hard on your behalf. 4. You're constantly scared. I'm scared when I pitch a new client. I'm scared when I can't raise money. I'm scared at three in the morning if I only have two months worth of payroll left in the bank instead of six. How will I get a new client fast enough? We're going to run out of money and die! I'm scared my best project managers will quit in the middle of a project. I'm scared my biggest clients will drop me. I'm scared our software won't work. Or we won't have backups. Or we'll be robbed. And, yes, all of those things happened to me. Everyone thinks they will be the best CEO. But at least for me, it was very hard to even be a mediocre CEO. Note: this is for startup CEOs. CEOs of bigger companies have an easier time getting rid of this risk. Any one client won't be as big, for instance. It's actually psychologically easier to be CEO of a big company than a startup. Some people might disagree with me on this. That's ok. You're entitled to your opinion.5. You're constantly dealing with disgusting people. This is not always true. But at my first CEO job we were doing websites for a lot of entertainment companies. Everyone asked for a bribe. 100% of the customers said, "If you don't do X, I won't give you the job." And so you would do X. What else? You have to make payroll. 6. You're constantly dealing with betrayalEmployees leaving for competitors. Customers not paying. Investors not putting in money when they said or changing the valuation at the last minute. Top shareholders debating whether they should kick you out or not. It's non-stop. And so I was always strategizing about each little betrayal to see how I could avoid it, or slow it, or bring it on for a soft landing. It was non-stop. It was not fun. Even when two employees are having sex with each other, one will cry, the other won't care, and you have to deal with it because, at that moment, you are their father and mother. 7. You're behind. You're never caught up. There was always a new client to call. A proposal to pitch. An employee to deal with. A shareholder to call. A potential acquisition to consider. There are always people calling you saying, "I can sell a ton of your stuff but I need $X up front." And sometimes it sounds so appealing but you just can't get the negotiation right. 8. You're constantly selling. Out at dinner. You're selling. In the street. You're selling. One time I was on one job for HBO and I ran into a guy who told me he was the head of Scores, the strip club. I interviewed him for the HBO project but then the next day called him. My sister and I went to visit him at the strip club. Throughout the meeting he would point out different waitresses and say, "I ******* her". Then when we got down to details he said, "I don't pay for anything. We'll go half and half on revenues." So we couldn't do the job. We never did those deals (which means: we did those deals until we realized they never worked). If you go visit your lawyer you ask for his other clients. If you visit your accountant, same thing. If you call your college friends you ask if their companies need your business. The chip inside your head that makes you sell is never turned off. It's on overdrive all the time. When that selling chip is on all the time it makes you even look at your one year old baby and think, "How can I turn her into a selling opportunity" so I would carry her to meetings (sympathy vote). 9. People are faking it. Some people are extra nice to you. But they always have an agenda. Employees want more money. Customers want lower prices, bribes, or even a job. Shareholders want information so they want to be your friend. The one time I was fired as CEO everyone stopped being my friend. Then I was fired from the board. Then I never heard from them again until the guy that fired me (the top shareholder) needed a recommendation for his billion dollar fund when he was raising money. I gave a glowing recommendation. How come? Because that's business. 10. There is a known rate of failure. Startups have an 85% failure rate. There's no way around that. Every investor, CEO and employee thinks their smart enough to get around that 85%. But none of them do. Look at all the returns of the smartest VC funds. (hard to keep track of all these possible ways to fail but you have to keep track of ALL of them ALL the time else you die). So when you are CEO of a startup, no matter what you do there's an 85% chance you're going to be out of a job and everyone will blame you. Good luck.