 James AltucherHabits dont change in a day. But 1% a day makes every habit work. Every.The reason is: they work if you do a little each day. If you relax and give yourself permission to only improve a little each day, then a good habit works.Its permission to improve. Its also permission to fail. Because when you first start something, youre on day one.If you want to succeed at anything, you have to give yourself permission to fail twice as much as you thought you would.If you insist, I need to change RIGHT NOW, then it wont work. Youll only get worse.If you insist the habit changes tomorrow, then the habit will certainly fail.Coolio, the rapper, wrote lyrics every day for 17 years before having a hit.Commander Hadfield, the astronaut, improved his skills every day for 20 years before getting into space.Kurt Vonnegut wrote every day for 25 years before he had a major bestseller.Even Mozart, despite being a prodigy, wrote music for 10 years every day before becoming a true master.Improve a little each day. It compounds. When 1% compounds every day, it doubles every 72 days, not every 100 days. Compounding tiny excellence is what creates big excellence.You cant be a master in one day. You have to improve a little every day.Picasso created 2 works of art a day. Thats 50,000 in a lifetime. It adds up.But its too late for me!.No, its not. Compounding creates fast results.If I read 5 pages a day from non-fiction books, then in a year I will have read 1830 pages of knowledge. And each page I read will build upon the pages Ive read before.And its 1830 pages 99% of people wont read. Most people dont pick up a book after age 20.If I write 1000 words a day, then in one day thats nothing. In one year thats the equivalent of 6-8 novels.Also you can also decrease 1% a day. We can say, aww, its only one day. Dont pressure me!Such an easy choice. It seems trivial. 1% up or 1% down. But it sneaks up. And then were old and lonely.Every day matters.When I was losing all of my money, and hanging around with the wrong people. And taking the wrong drugs and dating the wrong people, Its because I was saying, its just 1 day. Or, I dont need to improve every day, it adds up to nothing.Because I couldnt see how it was adding up at first. And that became my trademarked technique for losing everything, For losing my mind. For being lonely.It was the one thing that worked: 1% decrease a day cost me everything. I had to get back to 1% up a day.The 1% Rule can be applied to everything. If I spend 1 less minute feeling regret and use that to feel gratitude, how much better for my stress levels will that be2 in one years time.Stress is 100% reverse correlated with longer healthier happier life. With more money. With more love. With more creativity.Every habit can be built using this technique.Thoughts are in the head. Thinking, this seems like a good habit is a start. Reading about it is a second start. ButActions are outside of the head or body. Take 1% action per day.More than that and youll give-up (diets dont work!). Less than that and it might take too long (diets dont work!).It doesnt happen in one day. There are no goals. Theres only practice. Practice never makes perfect. Practice makes happy. Practice makes habits.I started writing 23 years ago. Every day I read a little. Every day I wrote. I wanted to get better.I was very bad at the beginning.I just looked at some fiction I wrote 23 years ago. WOW! Very bad.Every day I wake up and think, how can I be a little better? Just a tiny bit. Because I know it will make me feel good today to practice. And I know it will add up.Read More: How to be THE LUCKIEST GUY ON THE PLANET in 4 Easy Step