 James AltucherThere are zero good books about writing. They are scams. Many people will say, "Stephen King's 'On Writing'". Total scam. For one thing, the book is about Stephen King having a truck hit him while he was reading while he was walking in the middle of the road. If you want to be a good writer, don't do that. Don't read and walk in the middle of the road. Some people will say, "Ray Bradbuy's 'Zen and the Art of Writing'". This is a good book but not a book about writing. It's a collection of essays about all the things Ray Bradbury has been interested in in his life. It just so happens he later writes about dinosaurs, or people with tattoos, or whatever. He gets so passionate about a man with tattoos that he writes abut them. Occasionally I hear a ridiculous answer like "Strunk & White's" book. Who? Who are these people. And yes, grammar is important. But that's what editors are for. I love Anne Lamott's book "Bird by Bird". But some people hate it. Some people don't like how she describes writing. So it's not in the top three books about how to write. I can't read a book "How to be a great golfer" and get better at golf. Here's what I have to do: - I have to golf a lot- I have to take lessons from a pro- I have to take video of myself golfing and have the pro go over with me every stroke I did WRONG. - I have to practice those strokes over and over again. As Bruce Lee says, I don't fear the man who practices 10,000 kicks, I fear the man who practices 1 kick 10,000 times. - I have play competitive golf. When you play something competitively you learn the emotional psychology of how to deal with the adrenaline and tension that comes with playing with the grownups. And then with all of the above, I have to repeat. A lot of writers will say you have to write a lot. This is not really as true as people think. It depends what you want to write. If you want to write a piece of literary fiction, you probably need to write a lot. If you want to write 600 pages on butterflies, you have to sit down and write a lot. Only because sitting down that long to do anything is very difficult. If someone wrote a book: "How to sit down for 10,000 hours and not get bored while staring at a luminescent screen" then that would probably be a good book about how to write better. Some people say you have to read a lot. This is partly true. But if I had to research everything, then why not just hand people a reading list of what you researched. Then you don't have to write a book. You can write a paragraph about why you used each book and knit that altogether into a theory. You do have to experience a lot. But don't be fooled. There's two ways to have drama. One is: you can have it in your life. Which is often painful. I don't want to go to a war just so I can write about it. I don't want to be an orphan just so I can write about it. You either have drama in your life or in your writing. It's very hard to have drama in both. You should experience something: passion for what you want to write about. If you have a lot of experience being President of the United States then you can probably transcribe that and make a book. Or if you think that eventually we will colonize Mars and then have a war with the robots we left behind on Earth then you can probably write a novel. But stick to what happens. ("Then the explosions came...") Don't focus on being flowery with you writing. I do think reading helps you use virtual mentors to teach you how to do some writing. But it depends on what kind of writing you want to do. If you want to write mystery novels, read a lot of popular mystery novels. That will make you a better mystery novel writer. BUT ONLY if you follow one trick: once you have figured out "the rules" on the popular mystery novels, be strong enough to change them a bit. Now you will turn into a good writer (with 10,000 hours practice and 10 books written). I've written 17 books. 10 of them were awful. I will tell you right now I wish I can buy them back from the publishers and burn them. I will be a book burner of my own books. But some are ok. My reading list should be different from everyone else. But these are the books I've read that have made me a better writer. I bet some of them will work for you. I also encourage you to add to this list in the comments. I'm always on the hunt for more: 1) A collection of short stories: Jesus' Son, by Denis Johnson (his literary style combined with his poetry background creates unimaginable beauty on the page) 2) Mastery, by Robert Greene (non-fiction. He's just so smart)3) Slaughterhouse Five by Kurt Vonnegut (the way he anchors the story into the most intense moment in his life and then gives himself permission to go off on any tangent he wants after that). 4) Old Man and the Sea by Hemingway (it's almost a cliche to say this book. But this is the best example of: if you remove or add one word from this book it will make the book worse). 5) The Road by Cormac Macarthy (same as above, only in a dystopian science fiction world). 6) Interview with a Vampire. (I haven't read this book in over 20 years. But I still remember how she had small chapters and ended every small chapter with a cliffhanger. So I always had to turn the page. If all you do is remember: how can I make the reader read the next sentence, you win). I don't even like books about vampires but if I am being honest about what influences me, this one is it. 7) Factotum by Bukowski. Again, the beauty of the small chapter on an otherwise totally boring topic. Also, he was a poet first and I think people who read this book often miss the self-awareness that comes cloaked inside his ego. 8) Ant Farm. Simon Rich is funny. Funny is good. 9) A Million Little Pieces. Call him a fraud. Call him whatever. But I like the way James Frey breaks the rules in this book. It's a book about breaking the rules in writing. 10) Steps by Jerzy Kosinski. Short chapters. Each one gets intense quickly. It's a novel and none of the chapters are really connected. It's basically a book by an insane man who later killed himself. And that's writing. Also good by him: Cockpit. 11) Man's Search for Meaning by Victor Frankl (but only part 1 - not the theory part). His entire "meaning" that helped him survive the concentration camps was writing this book. And you feel it. 12) How I Found Freedom in an Unfree World by Harry Browne. I don't always agree with him (and I hate when people say that) but the philosophy has largely become a part of my writing. I guess same with "The Untethered Soul" by Michael Singer. 13) Born Standing Up by Steve Martin. I love standup comedy and to see this part of his autobiography basically taught me the art of autobiography and excellence. 14) No One Belongs Here More Than You by Miranda July. She is a love addict. I feel I am one also. Reading this collection of stories taught me how to write about it. 15) Person by Sam Pink and Spectacle by Susan Steinberg. Their entire personalities are reflected in their literally styles. I love when this happens. You can argue Thomas Pynchon and James Joyce do that also but I guess I might not like their personalities as much. 16) Tiny Beautiful Things by Cheryl Strayed. She invents the genre of literary compassion. I reread from this book before every Q&A I do. This is just a few. I just realized I can probably write 100 down. But these are particular to me. I'm going to keep writing my 100 (in fact, I have a book club where I do exactly that). But you should try writing your 100. Figure out your influences and you begin to figure out your writing. Read your influences and you begin to figure your writing for TODAY. Then clean the table around your computer. Have a glass of water. Shut down the Internet. Write.