 James AltucherI found my passion the moment I had a bottle full of pills in my mouth and I had the choice whether to swallow them or not. I had carefully researched what would do the trick. But I was worried if I swallowed the pills then the insurance companies wouldn't pay my kids $4 million in life insurance. They have a funny thing about being judgmental on suicide. Suicide is a horrible thing for kids. I know this because my wife's mother killed herself. Sometimes I hear Claudia crying in her sleep. It's either because she's married to me or it's because of her mother. Sometimes when I wake her I think she's about to confess that it's both. I didn't mean for that first sentence to sound dramatic. But before you can find passion, you have to live. You have to say, I WANT to live. Life is very hard. We're born and a moment later, the connection to all of our happiness that we've ever experienced in the womb is cut by scissors. And then we are slapped hard by the doctor. Wake up! We're hit and slapped and burned by cigarettes all over our bodies over and over again until the day we die. So there's got to be a reason we put up with all this punishment. The first time I kissed a woman, I couldn't believe it. My lips touched the top of her lips, then the bottom of her pout. Then I found her, then I found me, and under a torn and desperate moon, I found a single moment of pleasure. It was wonderful. But I wondered, is this where the passion is? Because there are many of these moments, both good and bad, where inspiration might strike us. But at some point, they all meld together. And 10 years out I look back and I say, "that seems like yesterday". The days are bolted together by a stapler called "routine". What happened to those moments: my mom screaming my name though the neighborhood, my friends ignoring the parents, we were all on two or three piles of rocks on construction sites we were strictly forbidden from playing near. We were throwing rocks at each other. Because one side was Saturn and the other side was Jupiter and they were at war. Occasionally one of us would time travel and teleport to the other side. And the rock throwing would go in a different direction.There's no north and south in space. And we were in space, with laughter and fun and energy teleporting us back and forth, rocks were our weapons of mass destruction, laughter was our reasons for being, for ignoring the screaming intensity by which one day tediously turns into the next. "I hit him!" Einstein found his passion because he wondered what a man traveling the speed of light on a spaceship if he looked out the window and saw a man standing still. DaVinci found his passion drawing machines with wings that flapped like birds - the first illustrations of what 500 years later became planes. Just doodles. Thousands of them. Charles Darwin found his passion playing with rocks halfway around the world. He played with them, he kicked them around, he drew pictures of the tree of life around those rocks, for EIGHT YEARS, before returning to the land of adults where he accomplished his life's work while all of the adults jeered in his path. Mozart found his passion when he finally escaped the adulthood of a steady job in Salzburg, for the virility of Vienna where commanding operas and orchestras and singers and actors he grated Don Giovanni, the opera that changed every piece of music that ever came after that. Marie Curie found her passion, like so many of us, by again playing with rocks. Why did some rocks seem to be like the sun, their own source of light when all else around them was pitch black dark. Mick Jagger had no musical talent at all but would collect blues records from America and he and his childhood friend Keith Richards would lie around listening to them. When his parents sent him off to study at the London School of Economics, he was still listening to those records and doodling the notes rather than paying attention to supply versus demand. Mary Shelley wondered what it would be like if a machine had intelligence. She called her machine Frankenstein and made up stories about how people would treat such a hybrid human/machine. Ada Lovelace wondered what it would be like to tell a machine what to do. Could such a machine ever exist? Steve Jobs loved calligraphy and using electronics to scam the phone system. Nobody discovered their passion as an adult. The child that still lives and breathes and is hidden inside all of us knows the secret of our passion. Will this child tell us. Can we tease it to give us a clue? Will the child lead us on the right path or maybe play with us and show us the wrong directions first. It doesn't matter. It's by following the child inside of us that we get closer to the treasure buried at the bottom of an infinitely deep ocean. The ocean that is built from our responsibilities, our mortgages, our bosses, our schools, our governments, everything that puts a roadblock in between us and competence, us and our friends, us and our freedom. I try to be a child. And when adulthood gets in the way, I cry. I get scared. I want the childhood back. It's not easy. Because the world wants you to "act your age". So it becomes practice. It becomes exercise. But here are ten ways I still try to be a child every day. And every day I find my passion. And every day I know I have to repeat these tricks to find that child inside of me: - PLAYEvery day I have to do something for no other reason at all than that it's fun. If I don't do it, the no fun. What can you do that's fun? Play a game with someone else. Learn a magic trick. Sing. When people want me to meet at their office I suggest the local ping pong establishment instead. It's through Play that we get to know each other. That the children we left behind get to meet and together destroy the universe. - FREENobody paid Einstein to daydream about two people staring at each other, with one going through space as fast as he could. In fact, he was a clerk in a patent office and could've stayed that way forever. Nobody paid Ada Lovelace to imagine a world of computers 12o years before one existed. She was supposed to just be a stay-at-home Countess and enjoy her luxuries. Every day I know I have to pay the bills to live. But I also have to do something totally free in order not to die. The world of money is a tiny subset of the world of imagination. - WHY?Why did the micro-cultures on one island look ever so slightly different than the micro-cultures that lived on the next? Darwin wondered. Why did uranium give off light? Marie Curie wondered. She wondered about it until it killed her. Why did Opera make Mozart tingle despite the acclaim he was receiving from the blander concertos popular at the time. Why do children ask why and when you answer they ask why again, and then again. When you take a subway in NYC it says "mind the gap". It's in the gaps of adults talking that you have to catch yourself and ask "Why?" "We just got divorced and then I moved to NYC," says one man to the other. "Why?" is what I always wonder. Why did you get divorced. Why did you pick NYC? It's none of my business. But a kid doesn't care. A kid asks Why?The Whys add up. The Whys add up on the search for passion. - FRIENDSHIPSA friend of mine is working on a TV show. I'm going to meet him later today to see how it's going. To be honest, I want to write an episode for his TV show. Just for the fun of it. I have ideas for stories. It was my list of ten ideas each day this week. It was fun. But most of all, I want to hear all the things he's learning by doing his TV show. And then I want to ask him about my own creative challenges. Friendships challenge each other. First we throw rocks at each other. But those rocks ignite the imagination of Jupiter and Saturn and time travel. Look at all of the arts and sciences: Steve Jobs started as friends with Steve Wozniak long before they made a dime. Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg. Jackson Pollack and Jasper Johns and Roy Lichtenstein and later Andy Warhol. The friendships that pushed each other to the next level. That pushed each other to compete and to play and to battle and to create. To create!- INTERESTSPierre and Marie Curie simply wanted to find out why a rock would glow. And then they fell in love and became adults. Benjamin Franklin flew a kite to discover electricity. Galileo was interested in finding out what would happen if a boulder and a feather flew off a tall building at the same time and then discovered the most useful scientific theories of all time. - HOPES AND DREAMSWhen I was a little kid I had a notebook. It will filled with "David likes Lorie because I saw him look at her." and "Joanne likes Bobby because she laughed at his joke." I wrote every day. I wrote a play about a moon that was a live. I wrote a story about Presidents. I wanted to write. I had dreams. But dreams and mortgages have a hard time staying in the same head. It's ok to be worried about the mortgage. But don't forget to have a little bit of hope. And to see what happens if you act on that daydream, even if just a second. - DRAWINGS AND DRUMSI asked for a drumset as a kid. But I never used it. But I did draw. I doodled all the time. I drew every day. Adults say, "I can't draw." Of course you can! Here's a crayon. Go! I bought a box of crayons (16 colors) the other day. I just doodled. I colored things in. Some of the colors went outside the lines. Just practice staying kid-like. Draw a face. I drew my wife. It looked nothing like her. So I turned her into a monster. It still looked nothing like her. So I ripped up the drawing and started again. Like a kid. - MOVEMENTWhen I was a kid I'd get home and jump on the bike (no helmet) and drove everywhere I could. I'd cross the highway! Hopefully my parents never saw me. I ran up and down the street. We played football on the cement, throwing each other down. Movement gets every neuron creating. Gets the body healthy. Gets the emotions roaring as you touch and tackle and daydream and breathe in the air with the sun burnt from the day about to die into a sunset. - CONFUSIONWhen I first moved to New York and I had my very first vacation, I had no money to go anywhere. I was stuck in the city. So I would walk around. I wandered into areas I had never been before. I was confused where I was. I was confused why other people were out at 10 in the morning. Why weren't they at their jobs? I wandered from confusion to confusion. Eventually, I started a project, "3am" trying to figure out why people were out at 3 in the morning on a Wednesday night. I was confused and wanted to know. When I do a podcast and someone gives the stock answer they give in every other answer, I get confused. "But didn't you cry when that company failed?" I want to know. What did you do? - SOCIAL INCOMPETENCEI try to learn how to small talk. But I'm not good at it. This is not a bad or good thing. I want to get better. But sometimes at a party with everyone laughing and having gun I feel alone and isolated. I try to figure my way out of that feeling of isolation. How can I have fun also? ---All of these things brings me back to those moments, both good and bad, when I was a kid. I practice being a kid. A kid laughs 300 times. An adult, on average...five. Sometimes I can go a week without laughing. Responsibilties, fear, loneliness, anxiety, regret, can weigh me down. I didn't have those as a kid. I try to laugh. I try to find things that make me align. As an adult you have to practice being a kid, letting that child peek out again. He or she wants to come out and play and see the world again. What's changed? The child wants to know!But guess what? The adults know. I have experience now. I've had the pills in the mouth. I've been divorced and lost two houses and lost a family. I've lost my money and been scared and lost a business and had people hate me and try to ruin me. I've had people I've loved betray me and reject me. I've had successes that came from hard work and from 100 hour work weeks I thought I would never survive but I learned persistence and I learned how to make it work. And I learned how to succeed and I learned how to survive failure. Some of the time. Experience mixed with childhood is a roller coaster. Is a playground. You swing as high as possible and experience knows you will come down safe. There's no one answer how to find your passion. But every day, give the child inside of you some exercise using the 10 ideas above. Mix that child with the experience you've learned over the years of fire and ice. You'll find your passion. Your passion will find you. And it's there, in that kiss of passion and you, in that kiss of your inner child and your outer adult, that you will find it. In the middle its there, torn asunder but ready to be put together and to come out and play.