 James AltucherWell, read my writing. Why would I make that up? I was living on 40 Wall St. I was watching the traders go in and out of the exchange super-depressed. It was 2009. People were literally killing themselves at least once a day on my block. I wanted to do something about it. Nothing in the book is made up at all. So why would I make up that section. That section is almost stranger than fiction, which the truth often is. Hold on one second. I'm going to try to find the section and cut and paste it here so you don't even have to get the book to try and read it...one minute.....finding....OK. HERE. HAVE FUN WITH IT: (from Choose Yourself, middle of the book). Have you ever wondered why the stock market didnt just keep going down? Why it bounced at all from March 2009 until the day I am writing this, when the market is hitting all-time highs? Very simple--and I state this with all humility--I personally saved the US stock market. I moved to Wall Street in early March of 2009. Specifically, the corner of Broad and Wall in the building that was once JP Morgans bank. You may recall from your history books that the building was the site of the first major terrorist attack on the United States. On September 1, 1920, Italian anarchists exploded a bomb, killing 38, and injuring 143 (thank you Wikipedia. Thank you World Wide Web. Now I have every number I ever need for the rest of my life. My building, a bomb, 38 deaths). About 89 years later, at the worse possible time, someone decided to convert the building into apartments. The building was a ghost town. Nobody wanted to live on Wall Street. It was the black hole of capitalism. My building had bowling alley. A basketball court. A pool. A gym. And you couldnt give those apartments away. So, of course, I moved in. Directly outside my window: the world famous New York Stock Exchange. A huge flag lit up at night, projecting its negative shadow straight through my apartment. You couldnt find a more depressed group of people than the ones going to work every day at the New York Stock Exchange. But I loved living there. I felt like I was part of history. That maybe this would be a new start for me. I looked out my window and there was the New York Stock Exchange. I looked to the right and there was Federal Hall where George Washington was sworn in. I loved it. Which was an odd feeling, because everything else was going to hell. The S&P 500 was heading towards a 20 year low, where it reached the magically hellacious number of 666. I was losing more money than I thought possible and going through a divorce. One time I looked at my bank account. I considered, once again, jumping out the window, or figuring out what drugs would anesthetize me long enough Id never have to think about my problems again. I lost my job. Nobody wanted to talk to me because I was bullish on the market and everyone thought I was crazy. Nobody called me. Nobody wanted me. Certainly nobody wanted to help me make money. They had their own concerns. I was trying to get other companies started but I just didnt have my health and priorities intact and as we will see later, those are critical for success. I was just as depressed as everyone else. And it wasnt just that the stock market was at a low. Thats too easy an excuse. The human race hasnt survived for 200,000 years just to be shattered by a little blip in capitalism. Wed all had a tough decade. We all suffered from post-societal traumatic stress syndrome. The first step was admitting it: Internet bust. 9/11. Corporate corruption at a scale never seen before. Housing bust. Financial crisis. Bailouts. Madoffs. On and on. It was rough. As a society we got afraid. Too afraid to move. So I did the only thing I could do. I woke up early one morning in early March and bought a bag of chocolates. Small Hershey chocolates, like you hand out on Halloween. At around 8am I stood outside the entrance of the New York Stock Exchange and started handing out chocolates to everyone walking inside. People would be staring at their feet like zombies as they walked in, but 100% of the time, they would stop, look up, take the chocolate, and they would smile. Chocolate releases phenylephylamine , the same hormone that is released when you fall in love. Suddenly, for a brief moment, everyone in the stock exchange was a little closer to falling in love. This made them less likely to be depressed, at least that day. This is not to say you should eat chocolate all the time. Youll get obese. Much better to just simply fall in love.But we were having a hard month/year/decade right then and everyone needed a break. Everyone needed a piece of chocolate at the beginning of the work-day. It was March 9. A Monday. The Friday before, the S&P closed the week at its lowest point in 13 years (and ever since). By the end of the week, the S&P was up nearly 75 points. By the end of the month, it was up more than 125 points. And its been going up ever since.I'm not trying to brag. I'm not trying to say how great it is that I saved the global economy. It's not bragging if it's true.