 James AltucherIt takes me about twenty years to answer one question. Ten years to make tons of mistakes first. Here's the sort of mistakes I make at first. I think I'm smart enough to know the answer. I then try to execute on my supposed knowledge. I fail a lot. First I lose my money. Then I love and lose. Then I lose my mind. Then I try again and fail. Then I start to ask, "why am I failing when I am the smartest person in the world?"Then I start to realize it was a big joke. My mommy lied to me. I am NOT the smartest person in the world. This takes up about the first ten years for each question. Then the second ten years is: How can I get smarter? And at first I try all sorts of things. I talk to people. I write software. I read books. I try again and again. But now my language changes: I call "mistakes", "experiments". I call "I have to do _____" and change that to "I get to _____" (fill in the blank appropriately). I call "money", a "side effect" of doing the right thing. I change "why me" to "this is my next lesson". I make friends instead of thinking I can answer questions by myself. An important part of answering questions is knowing the real correct question that lies underneath. And part of knowing what questions to ask is to listen to people. A lot of people. Every word someone says to you is the proverbial tip of the iceberg. You can either sink when you hit a word or you can dive deep and see what lies underneath, the roots that dig their way into ancient Earth. Only by listening for a long period of time can you DO. Only by DO-ing can I answer. Then I write an answer. The answer is not for the one who asks the question. The answer is for me. It's how I learned the question. It's how I survived it. If I answer: "How can I say 'No' better?" It's because I have a hard time saying "No" and this is what I did to learn and this is what I do now. Nobody can give advice. I can only say what I did and what I do. It's up to the other person what archaeological rubble in my answer is useful to their history.There's always a gap between someone's answer and the questioner's question. In that gap, you and I, we try to build a bridge. Hopefully we meet somewhere in that middle of that bridge. The bridge spans across time, space, dimensions, the Matrix, galaxies, and mental landscapes we have no concept of. And when we meet on the middle of that bridge, on a cloudy day where we can barely make out each other's faces, hopefully we can smile and shake hands for the briefest of moments. Hopefully we can kiss. Because then the bridge disappears in the fog of memory and reality. We may never see each other again except on that bridge of memory. And then we are alone again. Cradled by the thought that at least one other person exists. At least in this moment.