 Virali ModiThere's a saying: God won't give you something you can't handle. I don't know where this is from, but this is extremely true  except that I don't think god controls our happiness or miseries.I was at the tender age of fourteen when I went through all these dilemmas. Gradually, I had to deal with rejection from my family, my friends, and even men, because no one was accepting of me. Along with that, as time went on, I had to deal with breakups, lousy and painful treatments, the lack of an education, and rejection from the film industry. Yet I was determined to start walking.Yes, I tried committing suicide once, because of many reasons actually, the reason I gave in the answer below is a part of that.* The dominant reason was because I couldn't deal with life a couple of years ago. I was suicidal, angry, and frustrated. They say, when one door closes, three more open, I couldn't find those doors. I haven't ever shared this story on Quora because I'm here to motivate people. I'm not here to spread sorrow. I need you and everyone to know that I'm not some magical creature who's touched her feet on Earth; I'm a normal human being who's gone through a lot of horrendous things but decided to make it work, instead of giving up.You can ask Sonali how cheerful I am in real life. We recently met up, for the fourth time, and I was making her laugh so much that her cheeks started hurting. Yes, I have stuff going on in my life that makes me sad, but I don't let that emotion stay with me for long. I enjoy spreading joy and cheer, I hate sadness and tears. I've realized that the more I stay gloomy and drown in my sorrow, the more horrible I'll feel, especially if I can't resolve the situation. If I can resolve it, I don't have to be sad nor do I have to drown in sorrow.You are the controller of your emotions. No person, place, thing, or situation can cause you distress or happiness. You have to decide if you want to let someone or something take the reigns of your emotions. You need to choose when to be happy and when to be sad. This is the most important lesson I've learned over the past nine years. I've learned them the hard way, but after learning them, a lot of things don't affect me anymore. I've decided to let things be the way they are. If I can't fix it, I don't have to worry about it.On top of that, when I didn't have friends or family to confide in, my parents became my friends. They taught me that I didn't need anyone else to watch a movie with, to go to a concert with, to drink with, to have hookah with, and/or to be with. They were and are important and enough for me. It's just an awesome bonus that I now have some great friends, like Sonali, in my life because of Quora. Finally to answer your question: How is Virali Modi so positive and enthusiastic about life? Well, I've just stopped caring so much about every little thing. I've started living more than worrying, loving more than hating, and laughing more than crying. * Virali Modi's answer to What are the craziest/strangest things you did under tension/depression?