 Virali ModiYou are throwing your life away.1. Smoking kills your brain cells. In the article that I'm referencing from, it also says that students who smoke, perform worse than students who don't.* You've worked so hard to be where you are right now. Your parents have worked so hard for you to reach the level that you've reached. Why are you throwing it away? Stop smoking and start taking control. Why is smoking necessary for you? Did you start because it was the "cool" thing to do? Were you pressurized by your friends? If you were, do you see your friends around motivating you to stop messing up your life? You started because you wanted to. Now you have to stop, because it's what needs to be done. I'm sure your parents, your future employers, your future spouse, and your future children will thank me for this piece of advice. 2. Watch YouTube videos after you're done studying. When you wake up, make it a point to do something productive; don't be lazy and start watching videos. Assuming that you follow YouTube stars, they won't be paying your bills when you're jobless. They make a living off of YouTube, that's how they earn, but because of watching videos, you miss your coaching classes and don't want to study, they won't offer you money for your bills. You're going to be figuring things out, by yourself. Look, YouTube is a great source for learning too. If you feel you'll learn more from videos than from books, try searching something related to your field of education, and make it a learning tool. Otherwise, stick to YouTube after you're done studying.3. It seems as if you have zero value for money (yes, this is harsh). I'm assuming your parents paid the fees for your GRE coaching class? Well, by not going, aren't you wasting that money? Hell, if you were my child and I would've known that you wouldn't value my hard earned money, I would've put that cash into my retirement fund. I'm not saying that you aren't worth it. I'm trying to make you realize the value of money. You need to understand that your parents aren't getting any younger. They cannot support you forever, they are the ones who'll need support in the future. They expect you to support them, as a loving child should. They've fulfilled their responsibilities, don't you think you should too?A good education, good habits, and a strict schedule will help you in the future. Discipline yourself, be strict with what you do, and focus on a long term goal. What is your goal? Do you want to be independent, do you want to excel in your field, do you want a spouse and a good life? What do you want? It's time you decide that. After deciding, weigh your options.If you want a good, lavish life, do you think by sitting around all day, smoking, and watching YouTube videos will help you? Cross question yourself, you'll know what you have to do.I'm really sorry if I was harsh, but I want to say one more thing; we can only advise you on what we think is right. It's commendable that you've realized that you need to change, but you should be mentally prepared for that. You cannot change yourself for three days, and afterwards be the same person you are, right now. Change means changing for the long run. Be focused, be prepared, and be mentally strong. *http://nlcatp.org/do-cigarettes-...