 Virali ModiYou're only twenty-three years old and you're ready to quit because you don't have friends, a girlfriend, and because you think your life is boring? What will you do when you're really faced with a dilemma? Will you think about giving up and quitting, or will you fight?Let me tell you something, you are alone in this world and that's extremely frightening, but it's the truth. You're born alone and you'll die alone. It's harsh, I know. You know what you should do during this time? You should focus on yourself. Focus on why you feel frustrated and depressed. Is it because you're feeling the lack of company or is it something else?There are so many ways to resolve your problems that you probably didn't think of. Do you think your life is boring? Well, go out and so something adventurous; go sky-diving, go scuba diving, go to an art museum and learn about famous and not so famous artists, focus on your development, go shopping for whatever it is you like, or find something to do that you're passionate about. Your 20's are really important, you have the time to learn about yourself, experiences different things, you can take adventures, and guess what  you don't need friends to do that.Having a girlfriend is great, but the chances of finding someone that doesn't understand you, doesn't care for your feelings, and can easily hurt you are high. I don't know if you've been in a relationship before or not, but if you don't exactly know what you want from a relationship, things can get difficult and messy. You aren't mentally prepared to have someone in your life, according to me. Why do I say this? Because you haven't embraced yourself, you haven't embraced the time alone you have with yourself, and you don't seem to love yourself. How can you love someone else if you don't love who you are? I'm sorry that was harsh, but for me, I need someone who is comfortable in their own skin, in any situation. I need someone who loves who they are. That's how I know they'll be able to love me.My mom always told me one thing, "The wrong friends can ruin you." Guess what? It's happened to me. My "friends" spread nonsensical rumors about me, which ultimately ruined my reputation. I don't wish to explain what happened, that's another answer in its own. What I'm trying to say is that most people might not understand you. They might take you and your feelings for granted, it might cause you pain. Yes, I have friends. I hang out with people, but I keep to myself a lot. I don't share my feelings with other people, because I cannot expect anyone to understand. The only person I can expect something from is myself. If you feel alone and if you want someone to understand you, grab a book. There are so many books out there, you never know what hidden treasure you'll find in its pages. This has always helped me.I'm really sorry if I was harsh, but the lessons I've learned from the people I thought were my own, was a bitter experience. I don't think you should have to go through that. I genuinely think it's better to be alone than to be around people that don't care.Good luck, OP.