 Virali Modi1. The community wants us to be independent but keeps us dependent. I think this is mainly for those people that don't know how to drive and became wheelchair bound before they could learn. When I was living in Kansas City, I called up many rehabilitation centers, community colleges, and driving schools to know if they had the facilities to teach people that don't have the use of their legs. The only thing they'd need is a car with accessible features. Guess what, no facility had cars with adjusted features. I'm not sure if it's like this in every city in America, but this was the case in Kansas City. Before anyone asks, Mumbai does not have any facility as such, according to my knowledge.Basically, our therapists teach us techniques to become independent in our lives, but the community/society/government doesn't let us. It's incredibly frustrating waiting for a ride, wondering if it'll be easy to transfer into someone else's car, and wondering if the wheelchair will fit into the trunk. It's much easier having my own car and doing things according to me and my needs, rather than relying on someone else.2. Living in an unaccessible city.I've mentioned this many times. I moved from America to Mumbai, India in 2008. Sometimes I regret my decision. Everyday, I'm faced with the challenge of accessibility. The building in which I stay has three steps before I have access to the elevator. I'm not able to build a ramp because the secretary of the building won't allow it, since I'm not owning any of the apartments/flats  I'm renting one of them. I have to ask my driver and the watchman of the building to lift me on my wheelchair, up the stairs. What about my saftey? What happens in I fall? Who will be responsible if I get hurt?Let's move on to a different topic. The roads in Mumbai are horrendous. There are potholes, loose rocks, open gutters (in some places), and rough terrain. How can I be independent on such roads? Don't even get me started on the traffic. The traffic makes it worse. People won't even wait a single second. They'll start honking horns at you, either to warn you that they're coming or to warn you that they're going to cut by you.In short, living in an unaccessible city is tremendously nerve wrecking.3. Not knowing if a place is wheelchair friendly.I think my last point and this point go hand-in-hand. Recently, a boy was denied access into a hotel because it had stairs and would not cater to the boys' needs. He is on a wheelchair and no where was it mentioned on the website or on Zomato (like Yelp in the US) if it was wheelchair friendly. The boy wrote a letter to Zomato and they'll soon be adding a "Wheelchair Friendly" filter in the search box.I've been in this situation many, many times. I've never been denied access, but I would "walk" away from the venue if I saw that there was no backdoor entrance. It's as if the hotels, clubs, and bars don't acknowledge the disabled. I suppose it's uncommon to see someone on a wheelchair chugging a beer, but hey, that's how I roll (get it?!). That doesn't mean it's not a possibility! I like spending my time in bars and clubs, because I'm only 23, I'm extroverted, and honestly, the only thing different about me is that I don't have the use of my legs.Another user has mentioned almost everything that I initially wanted to say, and she has written it wonderfully, that I feel it would be stupid to repeat what she said. I'm just adding a couple more points, that are frustrating to me, as a woman on a wheelchair (and to many others).