 Virali ModiWait a second, I believe destiny is something that you make for yourself. I don't think that there's some prewritten script about our lives. I think the decisions you take, the thoughts you think, and the perception you have about yourself determines your future. In my last answer I used a quote which I'm going to repeat here. "Every thought we think creates our future." - Louise HayI couldn't agree more. You seem to think that you're ugly and not intelligent. Those negative emotions and thoughts produce self esteem issues. The vibe a person will get from you is something negative. If you walked into an interview without confidence, almost no one would hire you. Why do you think such thoughts about yourself? Has someone said these things to your face?Let's rethink this situation. If you decided to accept yourself the way you are, if you loved yourself from the inside out, you'd radiate with positivity and confidence. These two traits can be seen on the face. Confidence and positivity makes the face glow, and attracts people to it. I read in an article that 85% (the number could be off, I cannot find the source) of managers know if they want to hire someone when they first walk into the room. It also mentioned that if the prospective employee radiated with confidence and knew even a little bit about the company, they'd hire that person. The reason; a positive and confident person on the team can lead to success.No one lives an average life. If you think that by owning high end things translates to living an awesome life, well I hate to burst your bubble, but I think you're mistaken. Your experiences, adventures, the good things you do, your thoughts, and how you affect people will determine whether or not you live an average life.Everyone is beautiful and intelligent in their own way. Yes, physical appearance is the first thing a person sees, but your personality will determine if a person decides to stay. When you start loving who you are, that's when you'll realize that you really don't need people, you'll enjoy your own company.One more thing, remember this, you know at least one thing that the person next to you doesn't. That thought alone is empowering.