 Virali ModiTo live without fear.In our lives, we're scared of almost everything that could ruin our plan of a perfect life. What if I don't pass my X exam?What if he/she gets higher marks?What if my crush doesn't accept me?What if he/she cheats on me?What if I don't earn enough money?What if I disappoint my (enter important relationship)?I've seen many people, in real life and on the internet, that are scared of these 'what ifs'. They ruin their present worrying about something that might not even happen. They miss out on important relationships, chances to build a network, and chances to socialize with their peers. In the end, they hurt themselves in the future because they're worrying about things that really don't matter. Living in the fear of such questions makes you forget the present, the wonderful life you have now, and the many opportunities to do something new and exciting. Instead of asking a negative 'what if' question, why not ask it positively?What if I pass my exam? What if I get the highest marks in my class?What if my crush accepts me?What if my love doesn't cheat on me?What if I earn enough money?What if I make my (enter important relationship) proud?In my experience, by asking positive questions and by surrounding yourself with positivity, you welcome good things in your life. I truly believe that. If you don't believe me, you can try a little experiment at home.When you wake up in the morning to go to work or school, look in the mirror and say hurtful, negative things to yourself; let me know how your day went. I'm pretty sure you'll have a crappy day. The next day, do the opposite; look in the mirror and say positive things to yourself. You'll have an amazing day. I've done this experiment on myself, and I can tell you, that I truly understand why it's important to be positive.The point of this answer is to live in the present and enjoy what you have. Do not be scared of the future, don't live in fear. According to me, that's the best way to live.