 Virali ModiQuestion; How are you planning on providing for yourself if you're going to quit everything? I mean, surely you've thought of something, right? Do you see a flaw in your thinking? No, I'm not being judgemental of you nor do I think you're thinking is wrong in anyway. I just think you're frustrated and aren't thinking rationally.Everyone goes through what you are, at least once in their lifetime, if not more. I question myself everyday. I feel like quitting too. I feel like giving up, all the time. But there's one thing that stops me from doing so, that one thing is my goal. I hate  really hate what I have to do everyday to achieve my goal, but I'm not looking at the path I've taken. I'm focusing on my destination.I'm going to take a wild guess and say that you really haven't thought about a goal, because you feel like someone less accomplished than others. You most likely compare your failures to the success of others and that makes you feel horrible and unworthy. Let me tell you a secret. Almost everyone that is successful right now has seen horrible and cruel days. I understand that you don't want to learn anymore, and I'm speculating that its in context to edcuation, I could be wrong. You feel like this because you haven't found your true passion. Passion is the feeling you get when you're doing something you love. It becomes the reason you breathe. It can be anything, from building things, to music, to drawing, or even reading.You're learning a lesson right now. That lesson is being taught to you by life. I'm pretty sure the lesson is in understanding your self worth and finding your passion. Everyone has those days where they're confused, it usually leads them to something that gives meaning to their lives.I want you to find that activity that gives your life meaning. I want you to not give up, because giving up is the easiest thing to do, fighting for what you want, despite any possible set back is incredibly difficult, but extremely fruitful."Every thought we think is creating our future." - Louise Hay