 Virali ModiThe decision of moving to India in 2008, after becoming wheelchair bound. I moved to Mumbai in search of different treatment options for Transverse Myelitis. I have changed so much as a person and I've experienced so much that I believe I wouldn't have been able to experience in America.After moving to Mumbai in 2008, I was in a country that challenged everything I was accustomed to in America. The style of dressing, the food, and the culture. I realized that I couldn't dress the same way that I used to, I couldn't eat the same things, and the culture was extremely different that what I was used to.In America, I could wear tank tops and strapless tops and that would be totally okay, but in India I would be stared at. Not only that, but since I was/am on a wheelchair, I was/am constantly stared at. Everyone would recommend "treatments", it was quite interesting. The day that I landed, I understood that I couldn't have my regular doses of Italian style pasta with garlic bread; every pasta dish I tried (in the initial days) it was always spiced up with Indian spices. It wasn't gross or disgusting, it was actually good, but it wasn't what I was used to. The culture here is so vibrant and different than in America. There are so many gods and festivals that are celebrated, it's quite interesting.More importantly, I experienced a lot. I went through many heartbreaks, made many friends and lost them too, I discovered places, met many film stars, and even experienced some really, really mean people. But more than that, my life changed when I found my current treatment center.Stem cells changed my life around. I started improving, I regained a lot of motor control and started working hard towards my dreams. Because of stem cells and my amazing improvement, I started getting featured in newspapers. My story started getting recognition.Moving to Mumbai drastically changed my life for the best. Yes, there were some moments where I wanted to go back to the states, but I love Mumbai more than anything and I'm happy my parents decided to move to Mumbai for my treatment.