 The first thoughts that came to my mind were variations on "eggs". There are already a couple of answers to that effect already, so I won't repeat them. But I will reinforce the idea: an egg is incredibly easy to cook, requires little equipment and practically no skill, and is very filling and nutritious. Keep a dozen eggs in your kitchen, plus some kind of fat to lubricate the pan, and a bit of salt, and you've got several different meals right there that require little more technique than "make egg hot and stuff into face hole". Scramble it, fry it, boil it soft or hard... these are trivial things to do. You'll get better at them and produce better results, but even the lousy results are edible.So instead I will talk about pasta. Again, this is brain-damage simple:1. Put a lot of water in pot.2. Add some salt, about 2 teaspoons per quart. (Eyeballing this is just fine).3. Put put over heat.4. WHen it boils, put noodles in pot.5. Turn down heat if water starts to spill over. 6. Stir occasionally to keep things from sticking, every couple of minutes.7. Cook until the time listed on the box. (The instructions on the box are often aggravatingly hard to find. It's anywhere from three minutes for angel hair, to 15 minutes for really thick noodles.) 8. Taste it. When it's not-crunchy but still a little chewy, drain it in a collander. If not ready, cook more.9. Put anything that happens to be in your fridge on top of it. A jar of spaghetti sauce. Butter. Leftover Chinese food. Chili. A fried egg. Some chopped-up fresh tomatoes. A hamburger. Seriously, just about anything. If that thing is cold, nuke it a bit, or put the mess back in the pan over the heat and stir until it is hot.10. Stuff in face hole. Swallow. Repeat.This again is about the most versatile thing you will ever do. "A big bowl of starch" can be put under anything. (That starch can also be potatoes or rice or grits or lots of other things, and the basic recipe of "heat in water until it is cooked" applies.)For extra credit, you can actually start the noodles in the cold water. It works fine, and goes a bit faster. They tell you to start it in hot water to make the cooking time more consistent, but really, the goal is to recognize the difference between undercooked noodles and cooked noodles, which is best done with your eyes and your teeth. The main thing here: don't get worked up over "recipes". 90% of cooking is taking ingredients and making them hot. There are a few basic ways to make them hot: with direct heat from a pan, in a box full of hot air, in a bunch of water. As you get comfortable with these techniques you can optimize, but if you're in a position to be asking me for beginner recipes, the main lesson is "forget the recipes". Just figure out which hot-making techniques go with which basic foods.People get worked up over flavor combinations. Honestly, less is more. Let great chefs worry whether this dish needs a micron more fenugreek. Start with good ingredients, make them hot in the correct way, and let them taste like themselves. Noodles don't taste like much of anything, so they taste like whatever you put on top of them. If what's on top is a good thing, the dish is a good thing.