 Security is practically always antithetical to usability. Making it harder for thieves to get in nearly always makes it harder for authorized users to get in. In fact, much of the time, it makes things much harder for real users while making it only trivially more difficult for thieves. The nature of health care makes it necessary to share things. A lot of people are involved: the patient, their primary doctor, specialists, nurses, pharmacists, and an army of others who really just want to get the information they need so that they can treat the patient. That's before you get the insurance companies involved (who actually kinda don't want the patient to get treated, since they have to pay for it). These people have been making do with paper for decades. Paper is actually pretty good at keeping things secure, at least from hackers on the Internet. But it's really, really bad for sharing. They've been developing individual software solutioins to try to cope with that, but integrating that software is hard enough without swapping around credentials (which starts with a really difficult challenge of just ensuring that "Patient Tom Jones" in system A is the same as "Patient Tom Jones" in system B... on down to system ZZ 9 plural Z alpha).Credit cards are comparatively trivial, since the only parties involved are you, the merchant, and the credit card company, sharing a very small amount of transaction information. And given how trivial the range of connections are, it's actually astonishing how incredibly shitty they are at security. In the US, at least, it's accomplished by pretending that some 16 digit code that you've been handing around like candy is some kind of state secret. In my opinion their treatment of people has been literally criminal: somebody obtains this code and a few other bits of widely-known trivia, and you can find yourself bankrupt, and possibly even jailed. Horrible.HIPAA was only the beginning, a two-decade-old program. We need to do a lot better, which will involve forcing a lot of companies with diverse goals, and who hate each other (and you) to talk. Ideally, without actually disrupting medical care as it's ongoing... yeah, right.