 The answer is "no". This is really counterintuitive. So counterintuitive that I have a hard time believing it myself. My brain insists that I'm burning up valuable energy by warming up, and refuses to do so, even though I have data that show from my own experience that I do better when I warm up.In the case of a marathon, running even a few hundred meters of warmup sprints is trivial compared to the race as a whole. I'm going to run out of stored glycogen before the end of the race, and for that part of the race I'm going to be working on mental toughness more than strength. The body has the energy, in other metabolic pathways. It's just a matter of overcoming the discomfort associated with using it. It doesn't really matter if it happens a minute or two earlier.What does matter is that I will run much more efficiently if I'm warmed up. Warming up is different from the run itself. It shifts the body into different patterns of muscle use that are more efficient. You will run with a different, and more efficient, form than you would if you were just to start running at marathon-race-pace speed. You need to get the heart rate up and the muscles in the "mindset" of running. The body will settle into the right pattern during the first few miles. It won't get there just by running at the slower race pace from the beginning. Jumping straight into race-pace can tighten the muscles, which is very inefficient. For shorter races, burning the energy doesn't matter. You won't run out of it. You have plenty of stored glycogen. The warmup is even more important, so that you can run at maximum stretch and with maximum force right from the first step; you don't have time in a 5k for the body to warm up. It will cost you time, in a race where the time is most critical. As I said, even knowing this, I have a hard time forcing myself to do warmups before a marathon. Partly, that's because marathons are always too damn early in the morning, and all I want is to be back in bed. I want to conserve energy, but I know that it's going to be more efficient if I spend a dozen calories getting my heart rate up first.