 I agree that quantum teleportation is not teleportation in any meaningful sense of the word.What quantum teleportation does do is allow you to separate the quantum and classical parts of a quantum state and send that separately. Suppose you have an electron whose state you want to send somewhere else. And suppose you have a pair of entangled particles; call them A and B.You can use A to take a measurement of the electron. That yields you some result that you can write down and send (by email, carrier pigeon, FedEx, etc.) That destroys the quantum state of the electron. (The electron is still there, but you've forever lost whatever quantum state it had.)Now, you can take B (which is entangled with A), and interact it with some other electron somewhere else. To do that, you need to know the result of that measurement, in order to know what kind of interaction you need. (To oversimplify: you need to know something about B, which you learned during the interaction with A). Now the electron is a perfect copy of the original electron, without having to send it.But that doesn't really sound like teleportation to me. No mass or energy has been moved, just some quantum information. You had to get particle B there somehow, as well as the information you emailed/fexed/pigeoned. These are purely classical operations. It would have been far, far easier just to mail your electron.It's interesting in that you didn't have to mail the electron, just the entangled particles (which could be photons). But you still haven't really sent anywhere near enough to make an actual object, which is going to be on the order of 10^25 times more complicated. It's really hard to express just how big that number is. It's the age of the universe in nanoseconds, if that helps. And since all you've sent is a single particle, you haven't sent even a whole atom, much less the kinds of relationships between atoms.So it's not clear if it's even meaningful to talk about scaling this up to objects even as big as a molecule, much less an object. It certainly isn't like breaking down somebody into particles and then beaming the particles somewhere to be reassembled; the one thing you're explicitly NOT doing is sending the particles.