 If by "current dietary advice" you mean "eat more vegetables, not too many processed foods, get a reasonable number of calories, and make sure you're getting some protein in there somewhere. Oh, and get some exercise.", then yes. That's the current scientific dietary advice. It has been the current scientific dietary advice for several decades.If you're reading about it in newspapers, or god forbid magazines, or oh-fuck-no web sites... then the problem isn't that you're reading "changing" scientific advice. What you're reading is the latest headling-grabbing equine excrement kicked off by somebody's misreading of a heavily caveated and carefully limited scientific paper (frequently, with the complicity of the university's own PR department). Whatever magic ingredient they're telling you to include, or leave out... honestly, just punch them in the face. That's the best dietary advice I can give you. Whoever is telling you that, they're just bad people, and you can improve the diet of the entire planet by just breaking their nose.The problem isn't with "scientific advice". The problem is with non-scientists dispensing advice that sounds scientificky. Journalists aren't scientists. Anybody who writes ", PhD" after their name on a book cover isn't a scientist. (Take a look at a book by, say, Stephen Hawking. Note the way he doesn't say "Stephen Hawking, PhD"? That's because he's an actual scientist, and is recognized as such by other actual scientists who know that a PhD is the bare minimum qualification in the field, not a badge of general expertise. Frequently, the guys who write "PhD" after their names on book covers have a PhD in an unrelated field.) If the advice comes down to "Eat more veggies and less crap", then it's scientific advice. The rest of actual work on nutrition is trying to fill in the details, which cover a lot of baffling issues that nobody understands very well, sure as hell not enough to say "Eating X diet is going to fix all of your problems". Most real detailed work by nutritionists is for people who have very specific issues and need special help; you'd need to see one to get specific advice. Preferably, one recommended by an actual doctor, not some quack who laid out a shingle. And the odds are the doctor will say, "So, did you start with the 'eating less crap' part? No? Then go do that first."The tl;dr is that there isn't nearly as much "current scientific advice" as you might think. The vast majority of what's passed off as "scientific advice" is crap. It's not "crap that's going to be debunked some day". I mean just plain crap, and any actual nutrition scientist would tell you that from the first day. So if what you think is "current scientific dietary advice" comes from journalists and cranks, then no, it's not any better than it used to be. Because the real advice about eating better, a wide variety of foods with not too many calories, hasn't really changed and doesn't need magazine articles.