 I think that the best way to visualize the second law is via the notion of a Heat engine. A heat engine does work when energy flows from a hot place to a cold place.That asymmetry between hot and cold is the basis of a directionality in the universe. The totality of "hotness" in the universe relative to "coldness" is a quantity we can keep track of. That quantity is "entropy", and it can only increase. As the universe winds its way along, it goes from having more states with heat and cold widely separated, to having heat and cold distributed more equally. As a purely probabilistic matter, the universe is more likely to be in a state where heat can't transfer than a state where it can.If you could get work out of a heat engine with no losses, then you could run the process in reverse to create more hot and cold spots just by pumping in energy. If you could do that losslessly, you could reverse the entropy of the universe. And as we just said, that's unlikely: there are more ways for the universe to lack order (separation of hot and cold) than to be ordered.So any heat engine has a maximum efficiency, which is defined by the ratio of the temperatures between the cold and the hot. The colder your cold sink is, the more efficient it can be. If you had an infinite sink of absolute zero, you could be perfectly efficient. But you don't have access to an infinite cold sink. You have only the area around you, where even the cold things are at a few hundred degrees Kelvin.The universe as a whole may actually be perfectly efficient, as everything in the universe winds its way to its heat death. But right where we are, you're limited by the Cosmic microwave background, a 3K heat bath that surrounds everybody and everything, and that's the practical limit on how well you can do. Even that practical limit is unreachable on earth, where you're living a mere 8 light minutes from a star pumping out a lot of heat, and a body that has been storing up that heat for five billion years and come to a rough equilibrium. That will limit the efficiency of any heat engine you try to operate. Your cold sink will be around 300K, or perhaps 30-50 degrees colder if you seek out a really cold place. That's a long way from zero.