 It's effectively impossible to predict. Climate change affects whole ecosystems, involving a vast web of organisms: plants, animals, insects, bacteria. Each organism will be affected in its own way: later flowering, earlier migration, different metabolic requirements, altered soil bacteria mix. It's an insanely complex feedback system. Each individual organism's response to the change in temperature is likely to be fairly small. It might move its range a few miles, or a few meters in altitude. It might change its schedule by a few days. But that affects the other organisms which rely on them for food, for pollination, for keeping populations in check, for breeding grounds, etc. Species they depend on may not be there, or in different numbers; species they'd like to avoid (due to disease, predation, competition) may move in. There may be droughts, fires, etc. at rates different from previous. These effects will be far larger than the species' own response to the changed temperatures, and those will in turn cause more changes elsewhere in the chain, feeding back on themselves.Some ecosystems may substantially collapse, and species go extinct. Others will become bigger, smaller, faster, slower, less or more energetic, etc etc etc. These are the same kinds of changes that have been present throughout history, but they're going to occur considerably faster (over a century or so, rather than millennia or longer), which is going to put a lot of pressure on them to react. And the ones that go extinct will put even more pressure on the ones that relied on them through the Rube Goldberg chain of dependence.So the actual adaptations directly to climate change are going to be far smaller than the total evolution that occurs. It will probably be difficult to trace any specific change definitively to "climate change": the time frame will be relatively short and big changes take a long time even in response to substantial pressures. The main changes will be in the interactions between animals rather than in their individual genomes. And the most common genome adaptation will be to simply die out.