 No. The Theory of Everything is going to be incredibly boring. Seriously, I mean it. Even the Standard Model is incredibly boring. If somebody hadn't given the Higgs Boson some trolltastic nickname, nobody would ever have heard of it. It "explains" everything about chemistry and quantum mechanics and stuff, though not in a very convenient way. It's hard to use it to model a single hydrogen atom; practically impossible to apply it to a carbon atom; beyond ridiculous to try to apply it to any chemical reaction of significance.A "theory of everything" is going to be somewhat more elaborate, and probably phrased in even more unfamiliar terms, but in the end all we're really going to say is "Yeah, you take this, you apply it a gajillion times, and you get answers. Let me know how that works out for you. I'm going for a beer." Probably somebody will try to turn it into a layman's-level explanation of where the universe came from, and it will probably be about as accurate as the "cocktail party" explanation of the Higgs Boson, i.e. so misleading as to be practically worthless unless you already know all of the hard math.I'm sure that whatever it is, a whole bunch of people are going to point to some piece of it and dub it "God", which will explain exactly as much as the term currently does, i.e. nothing whatsoever. That's just poor-quality mumbo jumbo, the kind that isn't even dealing cogently with physics as it stood a century ago, much less today. It's not even really worth talking about. It certainly won't be worth as much talk as it'll get.It's not going to create flying cars or transporters. It's probably going to be even more useless technologically than it will be theologically. That doesn't mean it's not worth pursuing. The odds are good it'll uncover all kinds of nifty stuff along the way, just because it often has in the past, in completely unexpected ways. That's what happens when you apply enough smart people looking at the world in ways they never have before: if the knew what the were looking for they'd already have found it. But it's not going to "Enlighten" anybody, and the vast majority of us (including me, if I'm alive, which I almost certainly won't be) will just look at it with the same level of comprehension as a dog looking at a Rubik's cube. It'll just be, "Huh, there it is. Nifty."