 The short answer to the question is "no": there is no Slavic influence on Tolkien's work. It just wasn't his area of interest or expertise.The question is incorrect in some of its assumptions. Welsh and Finnish were used as the phonological bases of some of his Elvish languages, but these aren't related to Anglo-Saxon at all. Tolkien himself liked using Anglo-Saxon root words and idioms when he could, and at one point imagined that his stories of Middle-earth were being told by a writer who spoke Old English. That writer listened to the stories of the Elves, who supposedly lived on the island that is now Britain, and those stories were to be a kind of reconstructed fairy tale of a pre-Saxon (and pre-Roman) culture of Elves. Their language was free of Anglo-Saxon influence, and in fact came down directly from the "gods" (after much phonological shift, another thing Tolkien was fascinated by). The Welsh and Finnish influences were inspiration to Tolkien, rather than to the characters in the story.The frame story of the Danish traveler speaking Old English vanished around the time Tolkien wrote The Lord of the Rings, and does not appear in the published works. Slavic is just right out; the Elvish languages wouldn't have shared even so much as a Proto-Indo-European root with them. To my knowledge Tolkien didn't even speak any Slavic languages, though as a philologist he was probably at least passingly familiar with them.Tolkien's story began from Norse and Scandinavian roots, though it evolved so far from them that they're practically unrecognizeable. The Finnish story of Kullervo is obvious in the story of Turin Turambar, but it wasn't a conscious attempt to create a pan-European myth. Rather, Tolkien was trying to create a distinctively English myth, occasionally trying to tie in bits of mostly-forgotten mythos (like Wayland the Smith) and weave them into the story. Kullervo was an earlier fascination for Tolkien that was later woven in, much as he wove in Tom Bombadil and even Hobbits from other projects he was working on. By the time he was finished, even the "myth for England" largely disappeared as he created his own world.