 Well... my reaction varies. I was a "Trekkie" when the term didn't have quite so many negative connotations, a time when Star Trek was three seasons and a cult classic. None of the other series have had nearly as much impact on me, not even Deep Space Nine, a show I found most interesting in ways that it had nothing to do with any of the other Trek shows. The thing that makes "Star Trek" special for me was a moment in time that can probably never be recaptured.I sure wouldn't mind if there was a completely new thing, the way Ron Moore (who had a heavy hand in Deep Space Nine) completely reinvinted Battlestar Galactica into a far more intersting thing than its original form could possibly have ever been. But that could happen with any series; there's no special reason it should come from Star Trek. Indeed, the sheer amount of Star Trek "canon" would make it even harder.That said... I'm glad to see Trek back on the small screen. I don't think Trek was well suited to movies. Sure, it had its biggest single success on film... but largely because it had a huge basis to build from. Movies have to be about Big Things, and when Trek went to "God" as its Big Thing, it made some of its worst films. The best Trek film (by broad consensus) is about aging and friendship and loss, themes that worked because they had spent years building up those friendships to lose. When they tried isolating some of those elements for Into Darkness, they failed miserably, precisely because they didn't have the time to make the relationships count.So a well-built TV series is, for me, a much better idea than more movies. It has a better chance of tapping into the Trek spirit, of a very big universe filled with exciting ideas and new ways to look at ourselves. That doesn't guarantee success; as Voyager and Enterprise showed there are plenty of ways to do it wrong. But if it can manage to be even as successful as TNG, that would be a pretty big win for the sci-fi world. TNG is, I find, even more popular at Trek conventions than TOS is; it captured the zeitgeist of a different generation from mine. It has been decades since then, and Trek is a good universe in which to go looking for the feeling that captures people's imaginations now. It's even entirely possible that it can be a great show without appealing to me. So in the end, I just don't really have a reaction, other than to hope that they manage to do something good, same as I'd feel about any story. I'm afraid that Trek lost me at Voyager; I simply do not feel attached to its universe as a whole and I don't particularly feel like a new series automatically has to impact me one way or the other.