 This answer is from the perspective of a Muslim man from Kerala, who has just seen women around him. There are multiple answers on the page from Muslim women who wear the Hijab completely out of choice, and explain how that is the general trend. Please read and upvote those answers : Lyn Folks, Nina Sakinah, Cassandra Strand, Zoha KhanChoice is a complicated word.Is a woman wearing a burqa out of choice if she is doing that:Because her religion requires it to?Because that is the social expectation?Because her family asks her to?First of all, there are differences in how exactly Muslim women cover their heads. Some women cover their heads with shawls or ends of their sarees. Some keep pinned headscarves, some others wear the purdah without covering their face. Then there are some who cover their face too, and some who go so far as to cover their eyes with nets. The proportions of who does what varies from region to region, showing that this is not a monolithic Islamic custom but one with serious regional influence. In Kerala, for example, I am yet to see a woman who covers her face. My mother wears a headscarf and saree when she goes to teach in school or for other public functions, but she wears a Purdah without face covering when she goes to the mosque. The wide variety of clothes Muslim women use to cover their head can be seen here : List of types of sartorial hijab.The reasons why Muslim women wear these clothes are equally complicated. At one end of the spectrum, there are women who wear it merely as a cultural symbol - one that identifies them with Islam - without even thinking of it as a religious requirement. At the other end, there are women who are forced to wear it and won't be allowed to leave home without it. Majority of the Muslim women fall somewhere in the middle.Most women who wear religious clothing as a religious wear voluntarily also follow the many other compulsory things in Islam. Their adherence to clothing is no different from their praying five times a day or their fasting in Ramadan. Would they have done it if the religion had not asked her to? Surely not. But is that a lack of choice? I believe that it is not, but it is a debatable question. Then we have women for whom wearing Islamic clothing is a social thing. When everyone around you is dressing in a certain fashion, you naturally tend to follow the custom. There is also the point that you are brought up and encouraged to dress that way. Even if there is no compulsion, there is the invisible social pressure, not very different from any other peer pressure. An interesting contrast in the Indian context would be the Saree. It is a much more complicated piece of clothing to wear, and is quite restrictive. Yet, many Indian women wear Sarees every time they leave home. Is it purely out of choice? Would they have continued to wear the Saree if that was absolutely not a social expectation from them? I don't think so.Finally we have women who are forced to wear Islamic clothing. Their "choice" is to stay at home or go out in Islamic clothing. This is an absolutely horrible state of affairs, but exists in many parts of the world.Overall, the question of choice is very difficult to answer primarily because it depends on your definition of choice. There are women who are doing it completely voluntarily, and some who are being forced into it.But what I hope you will take away from all this is that every Muslim woman is an individual, and what she wears is the product of her individual circumstances. Do not look at a Muslim woman with prejudice merely because she is wearing Islamic clothing. You can say nothing about how free or empowered she is based on what she wears. And please try not to "force-empower" them by banning Islamic dressing, especially in educational institutions and employment. Education and financial independence are the way to individual freedom, and banning Islamic clothing from these places will just result in many Muslim women leaving these avenues voluntarily or involuntarily.