 The present beef issue in India is not about religious harmony or tolerance at all. It is all about the rise of political Hindutva ideology.Just like in this question, the beef issue in India is reduced to a Hindu-Muslim issue. In addition to Muslims, many other groups of Indians eat beef. These include Indians from regions like the north-east and Kerala, from other religions like Christianity, and even Dalits.In many parts of India, beef-eaters and cow-worshippers have been tolerating each other for centuries. In places like Kerala, the issue of tolerance did not even come up since even Hindus eat beef. And in many parts of India, Muslims and other minorities have been abstaining from beef partly out of tolerance and partly out of fear for their lives.Political Hindutva wants to extend that last state of affairs to the rest of India. It is all about enforcing the will of one section of society over the others. There is nothing about religious harmony or tolerance in this. I had written a similar answer on this topic.Basically a cow is a material item and not a purely religious object. Real tolerance would be accepting that it means different things to different people. As much as it is an object of worship for you, it is a source of milk and meat for me. Tomorrow, if a more extremist group comes along and tells you that the cow is so holy to them that you should not milk it, would you give in to them in the name of tolerance? If that seems absurd, understand that the demand of stopping eating the cow sounds the same to beef-eaters.Whether I eat beef or not, you get to live the same way. You still get to worship the cow and you still get to not eat beef. When you ask for others to live their lives based on your beliefs, it stops being about communal harmony and tolerance and starts being a political power game of imposing rules on others. When political parties with no standing start asking for beef bans in places like Kerala, it is time to realise that it has become cultural oppression, trying to paint the whole of India in one narrow brush. When political groups start using beef and love-jihad and such scare tactics to raise communal issues, consolidate Hindu votes by portraying Muslims as the other and win elections, it is just a political tool.Giving in to such forces and accepting a nationwide beef ban, for example, would go against the very idea of pluralism and tolerance in India.