 Yes, I would let a doctor who got in through reservation treat or operate me and my loved ones.Here are the reasons why:1. The medical entrance examination tests candidates on a lot of things which are completely irrelevant to their career as a doctor.Take a look at the syllabus (pdf) for AIPMT : There are many topics like electromagnetism, thermodynamics and botany which have nothing to do with the knowledge or skills a doctor requires. Many physics topics would be difficult for students who are weak in mathematics but would make excellent doctors. Given that even a difference of a few marks results in a huge change in ranks, there is going to be a serious lack of correlation between the ranks and the aptitudes of students. In general, especially with the abundance of coaching centres, entrance examinations do not check how good an engineer/doctor/scientist the student would become but how well they have prepared for the particular examination. I am quite confident that I could have aced the medical entrance if I had prepared for it, and I am equally confident that I would have made a very shitty doctor.Post-graduate entrance exams have less problems with irrelevant topics, but still suffer from flaws. Candidates are not tested on their surgical or diagnostic skills but on knowlege of topics alone, and this suits better learners than better doctors or surgeons. There is still the issue of coaching and dedicated preparation making a big difference in the exam without making a significant difference further on.2. Even if the student gets a seat through reservation, to become a doctor, they have to clear their courses like everyone else.If a student gets into an MBBS programme through reservation, this does not guarantee that they will become a doctor. They have to learn their subjects and pass exams and have their medical rotation like everyone else. They get their degrees only if they pass all their subjects satisfactorily. I see no reason to use entrance examination scores as a better marker for their ability as a doctor than their performance at the medical college.3. Reservation picks the top candidates from the respective categoriesReservation does not mean that you provide a seat to the worst candidates or someone totally random. There are still category-wise ranks and the top students from each category are the ones getting in through reservation (top based on whatever metric the exam uses, not necessarily top doctors as argued above). Had the number of seats been increased, most of them would have got in without reservation itself. Many a time, the reason to keep cutoffs and entrance exams is just to pick a handful of candidates from a large group. If there are only 100 seats for a course or a job, it does not mean that candidate #101 was unfit for the job - they would have got in if there were 101 seats instead. Especially in the context of India where there are way more qualified candidates than there are educational/employment opportunities available, I would argue that the number of prospective good doctors we have is many times the number of seats and it is all right to pick the best SC/ST/OBC candidates even if they are not at the very top of the rank lists.There would be a difference between reserved and payment seats in this last point. Someone with a lot of money could buy a seat or job in spite of being the absolute worst of the lot, and there would be no one to stop them. Still, the outrage is always against reservation and rarely against these seats. One wonders why.PS: I support caste-based reservation in education and employment. My various answers on the topic on Quora can be found here.