 Let me turn the question on its head:Muslims, Christians, Dalits and Keralites eat beef. Hindus consider the cow sacred and worship her. The first group is tolerant enough to let the second group do as they please. Why can't the second group return the favour and show this tiny amount of tolerance?It all depends on what you consider as tolerance. For me, tolerance is about letting others follow their way of life - not about changing your own habits. When X and Y - people of different religions - live together,X not allowing Y to follow their religious practices is intoleranceX letting Y follow their religious practices is toleranceX changing their personal habits to suit Y is unnecessaryNon-Hindus giving up beef would fall under the third category.Ask yourself the question : Does someone else eating beef affect your personal practice of religion in any way? You are not being forced to eat beef, and you are not being forbidden from any ritual involving the cow or otherwise. When you are able to live in exactly the same way as you would if others did not eat beef, how are they being intolerant?One analogy I can think of would be alcohol/pork. These items are forbidden for Muslims. Should they be banned by law, or should non-Muslims give up these items voluntarily to not offend Muslims? Or think interfaith marriages. According to Islamic law, Muslims are not allowed to marry Hindus. Most traditional Muslims would fume at the thought of a Muslim marrying a Hindu - it really offends them. Should interfaith marriages be banned because of this? Should Hindus break off relationships with their Muslim girlfriends/boyfriends? Definitely not. The individuals involved in the activity have nothing to do with the people getting offended. And those getting offended are not being forced to drink alcohol, eat pork or marry outside their religion.My personal request to you would be to open your mind. Cows are not purely religious items. They are material things, and they mean different things to different people. This is not like the abstract concept of a God. If a Muslim or a Christian insults Shiva, you can say that they are being intolerant and doing this to offend you - Shiva does not exist outside the framework of Hinduism. On the other hand, when they eat beef, they are not doing this to offend your religious sentiments - they are only eating what they consider food.Finally, how can non-Hindus expect tolerance from Hindus when they are not tolerant themselves?The answer is that non-Hindus expect nothing of that sort from Hindus. I expect that you will let me follow my religious and cultural activities, and my personal habits - and I will let you follow all yours. I do not expect you to change a thing in your life for me. I understand that our ways of life are different, and things I hate might be part of your habit and vice versa. I will let you do all those things I consider against my religion as long as you don't force me into them as well. I expect that you will not make me change my personal life just because it goes against your religion. And I will make sure that I don't force my personal habits which go against your religion on you. I will not steal or disrespect your cow. And when I buy beef from someone who slaughtered a cow they did not consider sacred and cook it, I will make sure that I don't feed it to you. If you demand that all food items containing beef and all materials made using beef carcasses at some point be marked prominently, I will support your demand as well.Isn't that what pluralism and tolerance are all about?