 As a group, I don't think that Indian Muslims think too much about Ambedkar.He is just known as one of the major figures related to Indian independence but that's it. I remember my Usthads mentioning Gandhi and Nehru in my Madrassa, but never Ambedkar.This is due to two reasons:Ambedkar's contributions are not given sufficient weight in the school history textbooks or in popular cultureAmbedkar did not directly influence Muslims the way he influenced DalitsAmbedkar was the leader of Dalits, and brought honour and identity to hundreds of millions of them nearly single-handedly. Nearly every Dalit alive today knows how much they owe to this man, and adores him - practically worshipping him. Muslims do not have such a direct relationship with him and do not appreciate him as much, since his contributions to modern India are not covered so much in the textbooks compared to Gandhi or Nehru.Personally, I have immense respect for him - especially with my Muslim identity.My first serious encounter with Ambedkar was when his biography was part of the reading material for one of the quiz competitions in my state. I was too young (13 if I remember correctly) and not so well-read to appreciate his contributions, but I had immediate respect for the man who started off at the lowest level of society and fought everything to become the leader of oppressed millions and the principal architect of the constitution of India. This is what he started from (from his biography on Wikipedia):He used his position in the army to lobby for his children to study at the government school, as they faced resistance owing to their caste. Although able to attend school, Ambedkar and other untouchable children were segregated and given little attention or assistance by the teachers. They were not allowed to sit inside the class. Even if they needed to drink water, someone from a higher caste would have to pour that water from a height as they were not allowed to touch either the water or the vessel that contained it. This task was usually performed for the young Ambedkar by the school peon, and if the peon was not available then he had to go without water; the situation he later in his writings described as "No peon, No Water". He was required to sit on a gunny sack which he had to take home with him.If I were in his position, I would have given up. I guess that was the whole point. The upper castes systematically excluded the Dalits from education, making it difficult to downright impossible at every level for them to achieve education and social status. To this day we have teachers forcing Dalit children to clean toilets in India. And a century ago, this man was able to fight it out and reach the top.After that competition, I went on with my life and did not think of Ambedkar more than the occasional passages about him in my textbooks - Until I was in college and decided to watch the biopic Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar (love you and miss you, DC++). Admittedly, I watched the movie primarily because Ambedkar was portrayed by Mammootty. That was a very well-made movie and a very moving portrayal of the man and his struggle. I then actively read about him a bit, and was more attracted to him.Even ignoring his humble beginnings, what he did was monumental. Had he not existed, the condition of Dalits and backward communities in India would have been abysmal (not that it is particularly great even today). He is the reason SC/STs have representation in legislature today. His championing of the Dalit Buddhist movement was one reason caste Hindus had to worry and start caring - at least namesake - about Dalits. He once famously said to Gandhi, "Mahatmaji, I have no country". If Dalits feel any less like that today, it is thanks to Ambedkar.Beyond Dalits, his effect on the laws of India is also huge. Being the first law minister and the chairman of the Constitution drafting committee, he had a major role in ensuring that the constitution was the perfect social document for India. It outlawed untouchability and discrimination, and ensured civil liberties and social rights for everyone. I believe that, without a man who had to suffer so much himself at the helm, we would not have had such constitutional guarantees. His drafting of the Hindu code bill was the first serious instance of legislative social reform in independent India.Overall, I respect him a lot. In my eyes, he is the number one architect of modern India. I believe that Indian Muslims need to appreciate him more, for quite a bit of religious freedom we have today is thanks to him. Muslims will be well served by having an Ambedkar among them to achieve social reform and overcome the backwardness the community faces today.