 Stop blaming Muslims for the electoral losses of BJP.The last time UPA won the elections at the national level was in 2009. Since you have to be 18 to vote in India, everyone who voted in that election had to be born in 1991 or before. Muslims formed 12.61% of the population of India according to the 1991 census. Even when all the deaths between 1991 and 2009 are taken into account, there would have been six to seven non-Muslim voters for every Muslim voter. It is a pretty unequal contest, don't you think?.How do Muslims vote anyway? Here is the CSDS data from the 2007 election.Source: Indias 2009 Elections: The Resilience of Regionalism and EthnicityLess than half of the Muslims voted for UPA. Under the assumption that voter turnout is proportional to the population percentages, this means that barely 6% of the total votes polled were Muslim votes which went for the Congress. That year, Congress by itself received 28.55% of votes as opposed to BJP's 18.80%. UPA received 37.22% of votes compared to NDA's 24.63% and less than a sixth of the UPA votes were from Muslims. Even without a single Muslim vote, Congress and UPA would have clearly outperformed BJP and NDA by a huge margin.There are multiple other trends to be seen. Sure, Muslims did not vote much for NDA - but neither did SCs who form a much bigger chunk of the population. STs mostly voted for UPA as well. On the other hand, most of the upper caste votes ended up with NDA. UPA had near-universal approval, with at least a quarter or more votes from all groups but one. Why are these trends never under scrutiny and only Muslims have to answer every time that BJP loses/Congress wins?Even when AAP won in Delhi this time, there were people claiming that Muslims were behind it. Seriously, this has got to stop. No party can come to power in India on Muslims' votes alone. And Muslim votes are no more or less misguided than Hindu votes in India.Now that we have established that Congress does not come to power "riding on the Muslim vote bank",How do Muslims feel when Congress comes to power?Well, the Muslims who voted for Congress would have felt pretty good - just as the Hindus would have. Running the country is serious business, and it is nice to see the people you voted for doing it. Similarly, the Muslims who voted against Congress would be feeling bad. I am going to wager that educated Muslims are going to be way more pissed about the claims floating around that Congress won on Muslim vote bank than on the fate of their own vote.Personally, I kind of feel relieved when Congress wins at the national level. As much as I hate their corruption and dynasty rule, they are the lesser evil with a chance at the national level. I disagree with both the social and economic policies of NDA. There might be better parties at the state level in various states, but none of them have the