 Indian athletes and sportspersons end up close to last in many Olympic events. Rather than being ashamed of them, we still support them and award them sporting honours. The list of Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna and Arjuna awardees consists of multiple individuals who failed to win a medal at the Olympics. But they are still the best we have got, and they have done their best at the highest levels of the competition.The case of Indian ACM ICPC teams is not very different.I was in a similar situation a few years ago. Abhimanyu, Pratik and I threw everything we could at the problemset, but ended up close to the bottom of the table. We had a particularly bad day, as we should have been able to solve 3-4 problems with our knowledge and might have ended up closer to the middle of the table on an average day.Everyone has such bad days. I have seen my very bright students end up without a medal at the IOI. I am quite sure that the Delhi team would have done far better on their average day. They did not get to the World Finals through a lottery, they did very well in the Indian regionals and got their deserved place to represent India and their college at the World Finals. This is truly the highest level of the competition, the competitive programming equivalent of the Olympics. If the best that India can offer can only do so well (the best Indian team this year ranked 69), it is plainly unfair to blame a team on what is a national problem.Why does India do so badly on such contests? This question would need a long answer. To summarise, competitive programming in India is still a very young and narrow field, and students are rarely encouraged and motivated to follow it. Nobody gets to spend their energy towards such pursuits in school since their purpose is to be fodder to the JEE machine, and they do not get faculty guidance even once they enter college. At some level, competitive programmers in India are a group of amateurs who are there just due to personal motivation and their peer groups, and they pretty much learn the whole thing on their own. Would you expect a self-coached athlete who starts practicing a few years before the Olympics to win a medal there?Things will change eventually. Hopefully, the competitive programmers of our time will become faculty at colleges and start coaching the next generation systematically. Hopefully, competitive programming will start picking up at school level and there will be consistent programming culture in colleges rather than sporadic highs when a few good participants happen to be in the same year. Faculty and seniors and the expanding online content dealing with competitive programming will then be able to coach students to the top level. When that happens, I believe that Indian teams will be as good as anyone else.Till then, I will celebrate our best teams today instead of shaming them. Satwant, Kunal and Archit - well done and good luck for the next time.