 Indian movies rarely criticise religion itself but just certain social aspects of religion which have a negative effect.Think about the recent movies which have caused much outrage : PK, OMG - Oh My God, and Dharam Sankat Mein. These movies do not criticise Hinduism in its entirety but only practices such as godmen and wastage in the name of religion. OMG even has Krishna as a main character. Essentially, these movies only talk about the flaws in the present interpretation and practice of Hinduism but do not question the idea of Hinduism itself. As a result, I have seen even staunch Hindus love these movies and not feel that they say anything bad about Hinduism. There have been better treatments of controversial practices in Hinduism such as Diksha before, and I believe that movies questioning things such as the caste system in Hinduism would be more of a "problem" to Hinduism than these movies. But nobody makes movies about such serious issues.Now coming to your question, Why movies about Hinduism and not Islam?The first reason is that very few movies are made about Muslim society in India in general. Look at the list of highest-grossing Bollywood films. Of the top 25 grossing films, only two (Dhoom 3 and My Name Is Khan) have the main star portraying Muslim characters. I bet that you can do a similar analysis with the list of Bollywood films of 2014 and find that barely 10% of all reasonable-budget films are made centered on the Muslim society (Muslims do get a lot of representation in Bollywood films as antagonists). The "Muslim social" has pretty much died. When only one in ten of films are made about Muslims, isn't it only fair that only one in ten of films criticising religion are about Islam?The second reason is that some of the biggest problems with Islam are not pertinent in the Indian context. In the question details, you talk about stoning women in Islam and barbaric sharia laws. Who stones women in India in the name of Islam? Sharia laws considered barbaric are usually criminal laws, and India has the same criminal law for everyone.The third reason is that movies do talk about problems with Islam which matter in India. OMG talked about all religions, and Dharam Sankat Mein talked about the Imam trying to force conversion. Fiza and Shahid were about Muslim youth joining terror groups, and Nikaah was about the issues with the Islamic requirement that a divorcee can remarry his wife only after she has been married and divorced by another man (The Malayalam film Ghoshayaathra was about the same issue). Bazaar was about bride-buying from poor Muslims by expatriates. I am sure that there have been various other movies in other Indian languages about those issues, such as the Malayalam films Paadam Onnu: Oru Vilapam about the problem of early marriages among Muslims in Kerala, Uppu about polygamy, and Alif about women's issues. As Pankaj Tripathi points out, movies criticising problems with Islam have been made even in Pakistan.In short, I believe that Indian movies till now have focused on only criticising certain aspects of religion (as supertsitions and "fake religious" practices), at the same time glorifying religion and spirituality instead of questioning them. I would like to see movies questioning religion itself rather than religious practices. I would also like to see more movies about Muslims in India in general, rather than just having them as sidekicks or villains. Movies can be a strong vehicle for social change, and our society will be well served by well-made movies talking about issues with both Hinduism and Islam, such as caste system and oppression of women.PS: I haven't been watching movies for quite some time, and I have absolutely no idea of movies from most other Indian languages. It would be great if you can suggest more movies (Hindi or otherwise) about social issues among Muslims, and I will add those to the answer.