 How about "It is a policy that aims to correct the massive under-representation of SC/ST/OBCs which is a result of long-standing and ongoing discrimination, and requires quite a bit of time to achieve its goals in the Indian society where caste is still strong?"The number of SC/ST/OBCs in India falls in hundreds of millions. The number of educational/employment options affected by reservations is too small to uplift the whole lot of them in such a short amount of time. We are talking about correcting centuries long discrimination in a few decades (actually the full extent of reservation as it stands today is a very recent phenomenon). This is quite impossible in today's society where marriages are still caste-based and Dalit children are still forced to clean toilets and even raped and killed for attending school.A lot of policies targeting the massive population of India work like this, requiring a lot of time. We started a universal literacy programme around independence - that has not turned India 100% literate in the past 6 decades, but we are slowly getting there. We also started a family planning programme decades back. We have not yet achieved replacement fertility yet, but we are getting there as well. If you would not use the binary logic and ask for such programmes to be scrapped, why the hurry in ending only reservations?In fact, the reservation policy is showing slow success. Reservation policy has started to improve the lives of SC/STs. They are starting to get adequate representation in the lowest levels of employment. Let it continue for a few more generations so that they can attain vertical mobility and achieve proportional representation in all levels of employment and get to enough positions of power so that discrimination is reduced. When you start a policy to solve a problem, you end it when the problem is solved - not after an arbitrary amount of time.PS: I have written many answers on Quora supporting reservations and addressing common oppositions. They have been compiled here.