 The authority that feminism has to fight in India is tradition and religion. Indians - men and women alike - value these so much that any changes are resisted if they question them, even when they are beneficial. Had injustice been inflicted by an external authority, people would have found it easy to protest.The two major religions in India are Hinduism and Islam. The former proclaims that women do not deserve freedom (Na sthree swathanthryam arhati [1]), and the latter tells its followers that men are caretakers of women (Arrijalu qawwamoona ala nnisai [2]). We happily put women on a pedestal, worshipping them and placing heaven at their feet. We treat them as precious things which should be protected, even at the cost of their freedom. The very basis of feminism that men and women are equal and deserve to be equally free goes against the foundations on which the Indian society is built. Questioning this foundation would make a lot of the structure that is built on it come crashing down.In comparison, the constitution of India treats gender equality as fundamental. Not that it doesn't have its faults, but it was a manuscript way ahead of Indian society at the time it was written, and I believe even today. The nation of India was born with universal adult franchise and no legal barriers for women from occupying even the highest constitutional posts. When the law is significantly more progressive than the society, feminist fights have to be more social than political - and this is extremely difficult.Coming back to the social aspect, sexual purity of women is ridiculously overvalued in India. Part of this is the need to ensure that her offspring are from the same religion and caste as her - or rather, her protectors. The entire caste system in India has survived millenia due to endogamy. Women's genitalia are the locks to safekeep family honour. All this means that girls' freedom is significantly curtailed to keep her sexually pure, which ironically leads to more sexualisation of women and sexual violence. How different would India have been without arranged marriages?Think about just one "feminist" goal : sexual freedom for women. Every woman should be able to decide what she does with her sexuality. She should be able to freely date and marry people she chooses. To me, this is a very fundamental and reasonable expectation of freedom. But we have feminists being labeled as promiscuous sluts for this.That has always been the narrative. Reasonable demands by feminists have been represented as extreme. When women started going out for day jobs, they were painted as heartless and selfish people who wouldn't cook for their husbands (poor man, how can you expect him to work in the kitchen and cook for himself) or care for their children. Women joining politics were portrayed as wanting women to dominate men. Those advocating clothing freedom and social freedom were depicted as scantily clad and getting drunk in nightclubs with men. Think about all movie stereotypes about feminists from a couple of decades ago. We just cannot imagine a family and social structure where women do not live their traditional roles.To me, that is the basis of the problem. The society simply cannot accept even the basic, reasonable demands of feminism. Men are afraid of not only losing their privilege but also worried about the women they were "entrusted with". On the other hand, women have to constantly confront breaking their tradition and religion, and also worry about the consequences of losing the "protected" status - the backlash for violating the social status quo can be serious and violent. As a result, feminism is caricatured and misrepresented as extreme, and both men and women are afraid of identifying with it.The number of women in our parliaments and slate legislatures is abysmal [3]. The literacy differential between genders is more than 16% [4]. We still kill our children for being born female. Those claiming that women have equality (or more-than-equality) in India are closing their eyes to the social reality. Irrespective of how feminists are labeled and stereotyped, the feminist movement will continue to confront the social structure to make things better.[1] Manusmriti 9:2[2] Quran 4:34[3] The 545 : A Brief History (Or The Lack Thereof) Of Women In Parliament[4] Census of India : State of literacy