 Telling Hindus that Muslims are sinisterly trying to increase their population and exhorting them to have more children is a truly horrible thing to do in the Indian context because:Muslim fertility rate is falling, and the current high levels are due to multiple socioeconomic factorsIn terms of sheer numbers, India cannot afford a rise in fertility levels of any communityScaring Hindus by portraying Muslims as the other/enemy is a dangerous political strategyWhere does Muslim fertility stand?Demographic trends change over a long time. For example, even if every Indian couple decided to have only two children, the population would continue to rise for the next few decades because of population momentum. Looking at numbers of the present do not tell the whole story, one needs to look at how things got where we are presently. So, what is the history of Muslim fertility?India is currently going through the third stage of a demographic transition. Source: Wikimedia commonsOriginally, both birth and death rates were high in all societies, resulting in nearly stable populations (stage 1). Due to technological advances, death rate started to fall and the population started to rise (stage 2). This was followed by a decrease in birth rate as well, but it takes time to catch up to the death rate and the population continues to increase (stage 3). Eventually, the birth and death rates become similar again, and after accounting for the population momentum, the population starts to stabilize again (stage 4). This is what has been happening in India too.Where do Muslims stand in all this? Well, look at the numbers:Source: National Family Health Survey NFHS-1, NFHS-2, NFHS-3 In 1992-93, when NFHS-1 was conducted, the total fertility rate of Muslims was 4.4. This reduced to 3.6 in 1998-99 (NFHS-2), and further to 3.4 in 2005-06 (NFHS-3). I am quite sure that NFHS-4, which is currently going on, will give further lower results.Conclusion : Muslim fertility is falling, and significantly.Of course, Muslims lag behind Hindus in fertility reduction just as in many other social indicators. One major reason behind this will be evident on looking at the data from NFHS-3 more closely. Two factors play a huge role in determining fertility : Women's education and economic condition. The higher a woman's educational attainment, the less children she bears. And the richer you are, the fewer kids you have. Given that Muslims are among the poorest communities in India and lag behind in women's education, the higher fertility rate should not be too surprising.This should suggest the direction to follow to reduce Muslim fertility further: spend more effort on educating Muslim women, and improving their economic status. This would be the same thing to do for SC/STs. Actively going against those steps - by calling scholarship programs