 Stop blaming Muslims for the electoral losses of BJP.The last time UPA won the elections at the national level was in 2009. Since you have to be 18 to vote in India, everyone who voted in that election had to be born in 1991 or before. Muslims formed 12.61% of the population of India according to the 1991 census. Even when all the deaths between 1991 and 2009 are taken into account, there would have been six to seven non-Muslim voters for every Muslim voter. It is a pretty unequal contest, don't you think?.How do Muslims vote anyway? Here is the CSDS data from the 2007 election.Source: Indias 2009 Elections: The Resilience of Regionalism and EthnicityLess than half of the Muslims voted for UPA. Under the assumption that voter turnout is proportional to the population percentages, this means that barely 6% of the total votes polled were Muslim votes which went for the Congress. That year, Congress by itself received 28.55% of votes as opposed to BJP's 18.80%. UPA received 37.22% of votes compared to NDA's 24.63% and less than a sixth of the UPA votes were from Muslims. Even without a single Muslim vote, Congress and UPA would have clearly outperformed BJP and NDA by a huge margin.There are multiple other trends to be seen. Sure, Muslims did not vote much for NDA - but neither did SCs who form a much bigger chunk of the population. STs mostly voted for UPA as well. On the other hand, most of the upper caste votes ended up with NDA. UPA had near-universal approval, with at least a quarter or more votes from all groups but one. Why are these trends never under scrutiny and only Muslims have to answer every time that BJP loses/Congress wins?Even when AAP won in Delhi this time, there were people claiming that Muslims were behind it. Seriously, this has got to stop. No party can come to power in India on Muslims' votes alone. And Muslim votes are no more or less misguided than Hindu votes in India.Now that we have established that Congress does not come to power "riding on the Muslim vote bank",How do Muslims feel when Congress comes to power?Well, the Muslims who voted for Congress would have felt pretty good - just as the Hindus would have. Running the country is serious business, and it is nice to see the people you voted for doing it. Similarly, the Muslims who voted against Congress would be feeling bad. I am going to wager that educated Muslims are going to be way more pissed about the claims floating around that Congress won on Muslim vote bank than on the fate of their own vote.Personally, I kind of feel relieved when Congress wins at the national level. As much as I hate their corruption and dynasty rule, they are the lesser evil with a chance at the national level. I disagree with both the social and economic policies of NDA. There might be better parties at the state level in various states, but none of them have the critical mass for the whole of India.Finally,How can BJP get Muslims to vote for them?This is kind of going to be hard. The first thing they have to do is kick some nutcases out of their party. People like Sakshi Maharaj and Yogi Adityanath make at least one statement every week which translates to "Don't vote for us" for non-Hindus. They spew venom and continue to keep positions in the government. If BJP deals with these folks seriously, people are going to take note.Go easy on the saffronisation of everything. Stop trying to impose religion as culture on secular India. Leave the school kids and science out of your political games. And stop trying to rewrite history blaming everything from Sati to the caste system on Muslims.Offer true secularism as an alternative if you feel that Congress is a false secular party. Showing off yourself as a party of Hindus and going for majoritarianism is not doing yourself any favours. Ditch majoritarian laws like insane punishments for possession of beef which affect non-Hindus disproportionately.Next, you need to shave off some of your appendages. BJP grew up as the political wing of RSS, but it is time to reform the RSS and the Sangh Parivar. It is high time that BJP started controlling RSS instead of the other way round. VHP and Bajrang Dal are not making you any dearer to the minorities. Deal with those groups and their leaders like Pravin Togadia sternly.Try to attract Muslims at the party level and mentor them politically. If you have active Muslim members at the grassroot levels and sufficient number of Muslim faces at the state and national levels, it will help you reach out to more Muslims who are not yet open to the idea of BJP.Finally - and most important - go for inclusive development. It is relatively easy to bump the GDP by going top heavy. But there are millions of Indians at the lowest economic strata who have not been too well served by the governments till now. These people are composed of a disproportionately high number of SC/STs and Muslims. By coming up with policies that improve the status of these groups, you have a good chance of getting their votes - and that would mean a lot of Muslim votes.Heck, if you do all this, I will vote for you. Of course, if you do all this and manage to gain some Muslim votes, you might lose the support of hardliners who voted for you only to teach Muslims a lesson. I have no clue how to keep both groups. Good luck with the balancing act!Seriously folks, stop getting worked up about vote banks. Every individual gets one vote, and they have their own reasons to vote. Every voter has different needs, and expects different things from their government. If you plan to form a government, it is your job to provide people what they need the most. People don't become a vote bank when they don't vote for you just because you can't provide it.