 critical mass for the whole of India.Finally,How can BJP get Muslims to vote for them?This is kind of going to be hard. The first thing they have to do is kick some nutcases out of their party. People like Sakshi Maharaj and Yogi Adityanath make at least one statement every week which translates to "Don't vote for us" for non-Hindus. They spew venom and continue to keep positions in the government. If BJP deals with these folks seriously, people are going to take note.Go easy on the saffronisation of everything. Stop trying to impose religion as culture on secular India. Leave the school kids and science out of your political games. And stop trying to rewrite history blaming everything from Sati to the caste system on Muslims.Offer true secularism as an alternative if you feel that Congress is a false secular party. Showing off yourself as a party of Hindus and going for majoritarianism is not doing yourself any favours. Ditch majoritarian laws like insane punishments for possession of beef which affect non-Hindus disproportionately.Next, you need to shave off some of your appendages. BJP grew up as the political wing of RSS, but it is time to reform the RSS and the Sangh Parivar. It is high time that BJP started controlling RSS instead of the other way round. VHP and Bajrang Dal are not making you any dearer to the minorities. Deal with those groups and their leaders like Pravin Togadia sternly.Try to attract Muslims at the party level and mentor them politically. If you have active Muslim members at the grassroot levels and sufficient number of Muslim faces at the state and national levels, it will help you reach out to more Muslims who are not yet open to the idea of BJP.Finally - and most important - go for inclusive development. It is relatively easy to bump the GDP by going top heavy. But there are millions of Indians at the lowest economic strata who have not been too well served by the governments till now. These people are composed of a disproportionately high number of SC/STs and Muslims. By coming up with policies that improve the status of these groups, you have a good chance of getting their votes - and that would mean a lot of Muslim votes.Heck, if you do all this, I will vote for you. Of course, if you do all this and manage to gain some Muslim votes, you might lose the support of hardliners who voted for you only to teach Muslims a lesson. I have no clue how to keep both groups. Good luck with the balancing act!Seriously folks, stop getting worked up about vote banks. Every individual gets one vote, and they have their own reasons to vote. Every voter has different needs, and expects different things from their government. If you plan to form a government, it is your job to provide people what they need the most. People don't become a vote bank when they don't vote for you just because you can't provide it.