 I don't think so.There is a lot of anti-Indian content on Quora. When I see those, I report them. Quora admins are quick to act on such content (random example) and block/ban the askers. I have found them very receptive to the problems faced by Indian users and I feel that there is a genuine effort to make Indians feel at home on Quora.But unfortunately, many Indian users on Quora have the same kind of behaviour. There is a lot of content from Indian users that violate various policies, especially "Be Nice, Be Respectful" policy:Examples of behaviors that violate the "Be Nice, Be Respectful" policy include:Personal attacks, including hurtful, insulting, or hostile comments.Making unjustified accusations against other user(s).Engaging in a pattern of behaviour that constitutes harassment of a targeted person or persons, e.g., by making threats, repeated annoying and unwanted contacts, repeated personal attacks, or posting personal information.Racial, sexual, homophobic, ageist, religious, political, ethnic, or other epithets directed against another contributor.Using someone's affiliations as a means of dismissing or discrediting their views (this does not include pointing out a conflict of interest of relevance to the discussion at hand).Speculating on the real life identity of an anonymous user.Even prominent users are not immune to this. Some users who write very good answers on some topics indulge in appalling racist/sexist/homophobic behaviour in other topics, and often make personal attacks. I have reported content from multiple top writers for violating policy.In that way, users' actions on Quora mirror the real world. How many times have we seen very respected individuals at the top of their fields end up saying absolutely uncivilised things? Many prolific users end up doing the same on Quora too. This is not just about your views being controversial. Saying that a certain religious practice affects the society negatively could be a controversial thing, but Quora is not going to kick you out for that. But Claiming that a certain group of people are lesser humans and deserve fewer rights is not a mere controversial belief, your proclaiming it on Quora alienates other contributors and makes their Quora experience significantly worse. The moment you stop talking ideas and start attacking people, you are not making Quora a better place.And Quora does not take those things lightly. The way I see it, they are happier to lose a few prolific contributors who act like this than alienate an entire group of people. I believe that this is the right thing to do too. There are lots of spaces on the internet where you can say absolutely horrible things about individuals and their identities with no consequence, and I am glad that Quora is not one of them. I have not felt that the policy violation banhammer falls on Indians unjustly and disproportionately. If there are users who you feel have been banned unjustly, go through their edit log and you will probably be able to figure out why the ban happened.