 Little me would have been very excited and surprised, but a little confused and disappointed too.For obvious reasons, I would let 11 year old (7th standard) mini-me meet the present me.In the top left corner, around the time I started to stop being cute.I think that our conversation would go something like this:R11 : Wow, you got so tall. You are taller than uppa [1].R25 : Thanks. But vava [2] got even taller.R11 : Vava gets to be taller than me?R25 : Yes. A lot.R11 : And you have a beard. It doesn't look very good on you.R25 : Thanks. And shut up.R11 : What do you do?R25 : I am doing my PhD.R11 : Nice. So you are a scientist?R25 : Yes, you do get to be a scientist like you wanted.R11 : Awesome. What all do you research in Biochemistry? Have you invented that plant growth potion yet?R25 : Actually I am doing Physics. You know, you grow up and things change. In a couple of years you will decide that you don't like Biology or Chemistry and Physics is what you want to do.R11 : Oh, really? So I am not going to grow up and solve world hunger?R25 : Sorry, buddy. That is not happening.R11 : That is a little sad. Do you like being a physicist? What research do you do?R25 : Yeah, it is a lot of fun. I simulate on my computer what happens when you shine light on really really tiny metallic objects. And I write code and do theory to study this. There is so much of exciting Physics stuff.R11 : Oh, so you just sit in front of the computer all day? You don't go to the lab and do experiments? But you said that you are a scientistR25 : Hey, I am a real scientist okay? It is called computational physics, look it up.R11 : It is still nice. You get to play with computers all day? It is so bad to have only one hour of computer science in school. I have to share a computer with two other students, I am allowed to play games only once in a term, and now I have to learn programming too - it is so hard.R25 : Well, it gets quite boring to play with computers all day. You will be doing a lot of programming, so pay attention to that. And don't worry about the computers at school. You will get your own in a couple of years, and the first thing you do will be deleting everything useful in that.R11 : So where do you do PhD? In CUSAT?R25 : Actually I am at EPFL. It is a university in Switzerland.R11 : Switzerland, you live in Switzerland? How is it living outside Kerala? How did parents let you live away, weren't you scared?R25 : Hey, don't get so excited. It is a nice place, but the whole thing is not that special once you get used to it. You are going to go abroad without parents in three years' time, and you will be staying away from home permanently right after school.R11 : Wow.R11 : So how is the family doing?R25 : Oh, they are doing pretty good. Uppa and umma [3] made their house and are happy there. Vava has gone to Allahabad to study IT. AndR11 : And?R25 : And I got married.R11 : What, you got married? But why? I don't want to get married at all, I don't like girls.R25 : Well, you know, you grow up and things change. So Adeeba and I got married.R11 : You married Adeeba? But I don't like her at all. And she doesn't like me. We haven't even talked to each other in class this whole year. Why did you marry her?R25 : Well, you know, you grow up and things changeR11 : Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhh[1] Uppa : Father[2] Vava : Baby (Sulyab will kill you if you call him that now, buy hey, he was just five when I was eleven).[3] Umma : Mother