 Marcus GeduldYou don't sound confused about her. You're not attracted to her; you don't find her all that interesting; the best you can say about her is that she's easygoing. You'll have to pardon me. I'm a Westerner, and I'm not used to arranged marriages, but even given the fact that they exist in your culture, it still sounds like you're not confused about her. Rather, you can't figure out a way to make yourself happy and your parents happy at the same time. You're confused about that. Even on that point there's no confusion. There's unpleasantness, but it's pretty clear. You will either marry this woman or you won't. The first option will make you miserable and temporarily please her and your parents. Maybe your parents are so self-centered that they'll remain pleased even knowing your unhappy. (It's doubtful you'll be able to hide your unhappiness from them forever.) The other option is to break up with her, which will be better for you, ultimately better for her, but may disappoint or enrage your parents. The worst thing you can do is marry and simply hope things will change--hope you'll eventually come to be attracted and interested in her. It's remotely possible but extremely unlikely, certainly not something to count on. My advice is to avoid marrying someone you don't love, aren't attracted to, and don't even feel particularly close to as a friend. One day, your parents will be dead, but you'll still be in this awkward, unsatisfying relationship (which will be unsatisfying for your wife, too). Unless you divorce. Getting into a relationship which you know ahead of time will likely end in unhappiness or divorce seems exceedingly foolish. If you do decide to stay in an unhappy marriage, I hope you forgo having kids. It's terrible for children to grow up in a home like that, and it tends to tarnish the way they think of relationships as adults. Parents sometimes fool themselves into thinking they can hide their unhappiness from their kids, but they rarely can. Again, this may be easy for me to say as an American, but, personally, if my only options were getting into a marriage like that or disappointing my parents (and maybe the woman, too), I would choose the latter option.