 Marcus GeduldThere are limited resources in the world, and we compete over them. The struggle itself can be painful, and we often lose. Evolution has endowed us with a survival instinct, which makes staying alive important to most of us. But our bodies decay and we die. And we're always aware that will happen. When our bodies get damaged, we feel immense pain. This is an evolutionary advantage. It stops us from sticking our hands in fires. But it's a great source of unhappiness. Evolution has also crafted us as beings that care about each other and our relationships with each other. And yet we have little control over other people. We can't force them to love us. We can't stop them from getting sick and dying. Etc.We evolved both selfish and selfless impulses, both of which are very strong in most of us and often in conflict. When we're selfless, we often feel we're denying ourselves; when we're selfish, we often feel guilty. We are optimized to live in small tribes of hunter-gatherers, but most of us don't. Our brains and bodies are not well-equipped for modern lifestyles, modern diets, and modern living conditions. Many of us are malnourished, sleep deprived, and stressed. This is largely due to the situation I outlined in the previous paragraph.We were forced into a school system that thwarted many of our natural impulses and actually hindered us from learning and becoming life-long (joyful) learners: see Marcus Geduld's answer to Why do we get frustrated when learning something?We are sexual beings who are taught that sex is shameful. Many of us are members of disenfranchised groups. We are treated unfairly, downtrodden, and controlled. Most of us spend our lives working towards goals that decades of happiness-research suggest won't make us happy, such as becoming rich. We are animals. Large portions of our brains and bodies are dedicated to eating and fucking. We are capable of being intellectual, too, but only for short bursts. Yet most of us work hard to deny our animal nature. We're taught to be embarrassed about most of what we are.After childhood, most of us stop playing.