 Marcus GeduldNo. You're not the only one, and you're not crazy. I say that, even though we probably make opposite choices.There's a cost to privacy and a cost to openness. And each person should do his own cost-benefit analysis, because the costs for you are necessarily going to be different from the costs for me. Some folks find it really easy and natural to keep secrets. They probably don't even frame the stuff they're not sharing as "secrets." To them, it's just stuff no one needs to know*. To these people, secrecy is cheap. (It may have hidden costs they're not aware of, such as carrying shames with them that they could get over if they just talked to other people in similar situations, but I don't want to assume that's always the case. Some people may be able to keep secrets without it causing them any great trouble.)For others, such as me, a secret is like a heavy weight. I have a hard time remembering who I've told what, who is allowed to know what, and who will be offended by what. But it's not just a cognitive burden. For me, it's also emotional. Keeping a secret feels like part of me is in jail.The more strongly the secret is connected to my core personality, the greater the price I pay for keeping it a secret. It's pretty easy for me to tell no one my social-security number, because it's not important to who I am, but it's harder for me to keep mum about being an atheist or having autism. I don't generally feel the need to broadcast private information, but if the subject comes up in conversation, it's hard for me to say nothing. (I don't go around saying, "Hey. Guess what? I don't believe in God!" But if I'm around people, in person or online, who are discussing religion, I pay a price if I keep my atheism a secret.)There are some obvious costs and risks to divulging certain truths. Some people hate atheists. Some people are nervous around autistics. For me, those risks tend to be less severe than the risks of keeping quiet. So, for me, the cost-benefit analysis works out on the side of being honest. Twenty years ago, I made a different cost-benefit analysis about atheism. It was much more of a social stigma back then, and though bottling it up still exacted a price, I would have paid a greater one if I'd told the truth. If I was gay, I would absolutely be open about it--given that it's 2015 and I live in New York City. I'd pay an absurd price for staying closeted and almost none for being open. But the situation would be reversed in the 1950s or even the 1980s, and it's still dangerous to be openly gay in some cultures and areas. So I would never tell a gay person he's smart or stupid to stay closeted or to come out of the closet. It depends on his particular personality and environment. I find it very hard to make constant judgements about what's okay to talk about and what isn't. Again, that might be easy for you, in which case--for you--it's low cost, but having to think about that is very costly for me. It's extremely taxing. So I tend to err on the side of openness. And I'm sure, at some point, I'll pay a price for it.But I have to say, as a 50-year-old who has spent decades being mostly honest and open, I've yet to get into any serious trouble for it. And, in most cases, my honesty has helped me and others. This is largely because I have liberal friends and I live in a liberal city. I'm aware of that, and I feel very lucky that's the case. Of course, some strangers judge me, but I don't care about them. And, so far, in 50 years, their opinions haven't negatively affected my life in any important way. It's possible that some sort of radical, religious group will overthrow the US government, and my honesty about being an atheist will get me thrown into a concentration camp. But I can't imagine how horrible life would be if I worried about stuff like that all the time. I'd rather take the risk.There tends to be a lack-of-empathy between folks like me and more-secretive people. And I'm as guilty of it as anyone. I judge secretive people negatively without knowing how they may have been burned in the past for divulging secrets. And people on the other side tend to look at folks like me and say, "Jesus! How hard can it be to just keep your mouth shut?"There are, of course, extremists on both sides. There are people who are mistrustful of everyone and others who constantly blab everything. There are few areas of life where moderation isn't helpful. * I once had a boss who was fond of saying, "He doesn't need to know about that right now." It was pretty clear that he'd spent years being parsimonious about what he talked about and who he talked about it to, and that this was his default behaviour. Even if there was no need for secrecy, he'd divulge as little as possible, not sharing information unless the other person "needed to know." He would also lie about what he knew and what he didn't. He probably didn't think of himself as telling lies, because they were meta-lies--lies about knowing information rather than lies about the information itself. I would ask him something, he would say, "Sorry, I don't know. When I do, I'll tell you," and then a few months later, it would become clear that he had known at the time. He lied because I "didn't need to know." Even understanding that he couldn't share the information with me, I still wound up resenting him--and I still resent him. My current boss also doesn't share all information with me. He can't. But whenever it's possible, he says, "I'm sorry, but I can't talk about that right now." That tiny difference makes all the difference. I respect him and I'm happy to wait until he can tell me, even if that's never. I also realize that sometimes even telling people you have certain information is saying too much, even if you don't tell them what the information is. But it was pretty clear to me that my former boss wasn't making that decision on a case-by-cases basis. Like me, he made a global choice, because that was easier than thinking about each situation. Even when it was totally safe to say, "Sorry, but I can't talk about that," he lied and said, "Sorry, but I don't know." That may have made his life simpler and so, in certain ways, it may have been cheaper. But he paid a price. He lost my loyalty. I would never work for him again, and I would avoid him in any social situation.