 Marcus Geduld(Disclaimer: I spent years working with children, but I don't have any of my own.)First, make sure you and your partner are 100% on the same page. If you disagree on what the rules should be, it's best for you to give in (if you can't compromise), unless we're talking about a matter of safety or something equally dire. Children tend to turn out okay with strict or lax rules, but they don't do so well with inconsistency. So, for instance, if you think they should wash the dishes and your partner doesn't, try not to make it an issue. It's more important that you present a unified front than you get your way. Children who never had to wash dishes grow up okay; Children who were forced to wash them every night turn out okay, too. Children who sometimes have to wash dishes and sometimes don't, depending on who is in charge at the moment, have a harder time. If you find yourself disagreeing in front of the kids, stop. Say, "Your mom and I need to talk about this alone before we talk about it to you, so that we can come to an agreement about the rules." Has your partner made it super clear to the kids what the rules are, in terms of them obeying you? If not, that's really important. Do they need to obey anything any adult says? Do they need to obey all their mom's friends? Do they need to obey anyone she is dating? Do they need to obey anyone she is seriously dating? Don't just slide into this sort of arrangement. The kids need to be told, point-blank, what is expected of them. Next, talk things out as much as possible in real, two-way conversations. This requires collaboration from all parties, and both kids and parents can (and often do) sabotage it. Be very clear that conversation doesn't mean democracy, but make equally clear that you want to hear how the kids feel, and that, while they're talking, you'll give them your undivided attention. Next, approach discipline with as much emotional neutrality as you can. This is very hard, but it's worth working at. I'm talking about "I said that if you did that again, you wouldn't be allowed to watch television tonight. You did it again, so no TV" vs. "I am very, very disappointed in you! I expressly asked you to stop doing that, and you did it any way. You have no respect for me, and there will be no TV tonight as a result. While you're sitting in your room, doing nothing, I hope you spend some time thinking about your behaviour!"The latter approach gives the kids attention for acting out, which will make them act out more. Many kids seek out negative attention, especially when it's the only kind on offer. And a teenager (or even a younger kid) who is testing her power may get excited by knowing she's pissed you off.Once you make a rule, stick to it. If you say, "Whining will not get you what you want" and then, after an hour of more whining, say, "Okay! Fine! Jesus! I can't take it any more. Here's some more damn candy!" you've just taught the child that an hour of whining works.If you must change a rule, do so directly and honestly. "I thought no TV was a good idea. I was wrong. So we're going to try limiting you to just an hour a night." In other works, don't make a bad rule and stick to it, just because changing it hurts your pride. Do not keep giving the child "just one more chance." Don't touch that ... I said don't touch it. Stop. Stop. If you touch it one more time ... One more time and you're going to have to go to your room. I'm telling you, for real, if you do it again ... That teaches a child that he can get away with the behaviour several times before there are any real consequences. Sometimes parents get themselves into binds by making threats they're not actually willing to carry out. "If you do that again, we're not going to visit grandma." If you say that, you need to be willing to not-visit-grandma. Don't assume the child will start behaving based on being threatened and that you won't have to follow through. Do give the child a short amount of time to change his behaviour. It's hard to do it instantaneously. "I'm going to give you a minute to stop doing that. If you haven't stopping after that, you're going to have to go to your room." But after the minute, don't give an second minute or even an extra 20 seconds. Do give the child a path to redemption. If a child feels there's no way he can get out of trouble, he will probably keep acting out. And remember that, to most children, an hour lasts longer than it does to most adults. "Go to your room for the rest of the day!" may seem like forever. There may be no point, from the child's point of view, of changing her behaviour when she's already been sent to prison "forever." "You need to spend an hour in your room, and then if you're willing to come down and do the dishes, you can play video games." Do not ever allow bargaining. "It's been 45 minutes, and I'm sorry. I'll do the dishes. Can I come down?" "No. Sorry. An hour is an hour.""But I'm sorry!" Kids need to learn that actions have consequences that they can't sorry themselves out of. It's very hard to keep a kid in some sort of punishment when she's clearly sorry, but in the long run, the consistency of "an hour means an hour" is best for her."No bargaining" also means discussions must end at some point. "Can't I come down now? How about in five minutes? Okay, how about in ten minutes? ..." Once you've said "Sorry, no. An hour is an hour" once, that needs be the end of it. The second time the bargaining starts, say, "I gave you an answer. I will not respond to further bargaining, and if I hear any more of it, you'll have to stay in your room an extra ten minutes." As I wrote, above, discussions are important, but they shouldn't be allowed during a punishment. (And remember to keep your language and expressions neutral. Do not say, "I told you to stop! You're making me very, very angry!" There are rules; there are consequences. That's all. Control your passive-aggressive language, too. If you're sighing, scowling, or thumping stuff around, you might as well be yelling.)You are human, so you will screw up. That's fine. Be upfront about it. "Yesterday, you broke a rule and I yelled at you. I'm sorry. I will try hard not to do it again." As always with apologies, make them pure. Don't add, "... but you really need to listen when I tell you to stop doing something!" Yes, she does need to listen, but the time to tell her that is not when you're apologizing. Don't ever spank or use any sort of physical punishment. People have a variety of views (often strong ones) on spanking, and some folks are thankful their parents spanked them. But we don't need to rely on anecdote or personal feeling. Many studies strongly agree that spanking is not a good form of punishment. If you get to a point when "nothing else works," you are no longer able to control the situation. At that point, you should seek outside help. Good luck.