 Marcus GeduldI don't know what "real Americans" means. Unless you're talking about legal status, which it sounds like you're not, there are just a bunch of people who inhabit a region. Some of the believe in imaginary lines that surround it and believe it's "called" America. Do you mean that the ancestors of contemporary Native Americans and Hispanics lived on the continent before Europeans colonized it? I'm pretty sure most educated (and lots of uneducated) white people know that and accept it. I'm white, and I know it and accept it. I also know and accept that Europeans did this via genocide and slavery. Are you asking why people like me don't leave the continent? Well, where would I go? Most white Americans don't have citizenship in other countries. The truth is, I do. I'm a dual British-American citizen, so I could live in any EU country. The problem is, most of those countries were also colonized at some point. If I am only allowed to live where my ancestors come from, things get really complicated. What side of the family are we talking about? They were mostly Jews from various parts of Eastern or Western Europe. But that's just tracing things back an arbitrary amount. "My people" is a complex thing, because I'm a mix of many different ancestries, but certainly, if where-I'm-allowed-to-live is somehow shaped by where my people hail from, I have no business being in the Americas or Europe. I suppose I could go live in Israel, but that wouldn't be solving the problem, would it? Talk about a contested plot of land! (Or were my ancestors Europeans who converted to Judaism. It's really hard to say.) Should I go to Africa? That's where our entire species comes from. My ancestors come from there; the ancestors of Hispanics come from there. The ancestors of Native Americans come from there. Do we all have the right to move there? Maybe you don't expect me to do something as extreme as moving. Okay, then what should I do? Give money to organizations that champion the rights of Native Americans? Push to get Native Americans elected to Congress? Urge the American government to make reparations for the treatment of Native Americans in the past and present? Simply be respectful to them? Some of those things may be good ideas, but your question is so vague, I am not sure what you're asking for or expecting. Are you upset that some people are racist? Good. Me too. But that's not "white people." It's some white people (and some non-white people). Maybe I'm racist in the "everybody is racist" sense, but I have never knowingly said anything prejudiced about a Native American or Hispanic person. And I would be disgusted with myself if I did. So in what sense do I "still not accept it." What should I do to help myself accept it or show that I accept it?