 Marcus GeduldIt takes me much longer to tire of a food than most of my non-autistic friends. I could eat the same thing every day for a year, as long as I like it. When I go to restaurants, I generally order the same foods every time. Every once in a while, I think, "I should be more adventurous," so I change my order, but I usually like my original choice better and switch back to it next time.I'm an extremely picky eater. I dislike pickles, tomatoes, coffee with sugar in it, vinegar, mushrooms, shellfish, mustard, ketchup, mayonnaise, and most other condiments. (It's very hard where I live to get coffee without sugar, unless I'm willing to drink it without milk, too. People can parse the idea of black coffee, but not coffee with just milk. I have to watch the barista like a hawk. I'll say, "Just milk, no sugar, please," and the guy will nod. Then he'll reach for the spoon and the sugar jar while I scream, "No no no no no!" Then I'll be embarrassed at my over-reaction, but I can't drink coffee if it's even a little bit sweet.Getting a sandwich without a pickle is even harder. It's practically impossible. It doesn't matter how emphatic I am in my request, and it makes no difference if the person behind the counter hears me. I will still get a pickle.) When I say I dislike something, I don't mean it's a little gross to me. I mean it makes me gag. When I was a kid, and I was forced to eat certain foods, grownups accused me of faking my reactions. "It can't possibly be that bad." All I can tell you is that, to me, eating even a tiny bit of mustard is like having a mouth full of feces. I'm not all that well-acquainted with mild reactions to food. Very few dishes that are just a little distasteful to me or "just okay." I either adore a meal or it utterly disgusts me. I tend to like simple food and get confused at complex mixes. For instance, when I get pizza, I'll ask for plain cheese or just a single other topping. And I sometimes even prefer peanut-butter sandwiches to peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches. I never grew out of the "my foods can't touch!" phase. I tend to each each item on my plate in its entirety before starting on the next. If I'm eating carrots, mashed potatoes, and chicken, I will eat all of the carrots before starting on other two items. This used to drive my grandmother crazy. She'd say, "What's the matter? You don't like the chicken?" Each time, I'd tell her, "I'm sure it's good. I just haven't gotten to it yet."When I'm full, all food disgusts me. I have a hard time lingering at the dinner table after eating if there are plates with scraps of food still on the table. Sometimes, after having eaten, I start gagging while putting food away in the refrigerator, even if it's food I like. Once I'm full, I don't even want to think about food or know it exists.