 Freelancing has appeared as a choice of employment for a wide range of employees. It is now an economically viable option to people who like to work at their own terms, who prefer to devote certain duration of time for a project, who have time/space constraints and who prefer it until they find their dream job.According to a 2010 survey conducted by Intuit , a software company , by 2020 four out of every ten American (i.e. 40% of US workforce) would go for freelancing. This trend is bound to be replicated in EU and other developed countries. The figures may not be high for developing countries but a large number of startups are preferring freelancers over permanent employees. Experts attribute this shift to passion for work and flexibility attached with freelancing. Many permanent employees have found that they are more productive and creative when they are not attached with long-term employer. Their ability to think out of box is enhanced when they are working with new employer for a brief stint. Thisno-strings-attached model is gathering momentum in almost all domains, be it industry or corporates. The forerunners in freelancing are developers and programmers. In spite of certain disadvantages, freelancing is bound to be the choice of employment of future. Theubiquitous Internet access, availability of all work tools in cloud and sense of freedom from cubicle workplace in newer generation emphasizes that employers would have to facilitate a fraction of jobs for freelancing. Employers are also finding freelancing better than age-old notion of permanent employee because of the enhanced productivity, innovativeness and work rules.Some corporations also see freelancers as job hoppers, the line of differentiation is blurred. But the trends suggest that freelancing is here to stay. Employers would have to create a work ecosystem where all types of employees can work in harmony and contribute to the common end. The top 20 admired corporations of the world have already felt the impending need and have started imbibing more of freelancers and virtual employees. The stigma with being self-employed is also breaking down. The social perception with this fraction of workforce is not what it used to be a decade earlier.But, freelancing is not all white as it seems to be. Full time job has advantages of employer-sponsored benefits like pensions, insurance and appraisals. These are not equally accessible to freelancers as of now. It is also not very clear as how these employees should be taxed. It needs global discussion , change in policies and regulation of terms and conditions to make freelancing come under the same radar as full time employment. The benefits should be proportionate to work and not the type of employment.