 Autoimmune TherapyIt's very much under clinical trials.According to WHO, 246 million people in the world are living with diabetes. Type 1 or juvenile diabetes affects approximately 70,000 children under the age of 15 every year and around 3.2 million people in the world die due to diabetes or its related causes per year.Type I diabetes is an autoimmune disorder and it may develop at any age.Incomplete understanding of the mechanism of disease development and progression precludes development of rationally designed drug.Presently the treatment involves insulin administration by injection or pump. Both are invasive methods, pain and hence non-compliance is usually observed in patients. The present treatment is also an economic burden to patients. Given the availability of advanced biomarkers and genetic markers as an accurate proxy for disease detection, it becomes relevant to develop intervention therapy.Autoimmune therapy targets auto-antigens without compromising the organisms capabilities to mount an immune response against foreign antigen. Oral administration of protein antigens can result in diminished peripheral immune responses to a subsequent systemic challenge with the same antigen, in a process known as oral immune tolerance.With greater patient acceptance of oral rather than systemic therapies (e.g., by injection) and antigen-specific effects without toxic effects of general immunosuppression, oral tolerance remains an attractive strategy.Insulin is obvious auto-antigen implicated in T1 Diabetes. C-peptide, a component of Proinsulin is reported to have beneficial impact on nerve functions, renal structure and renal function. C peptide is not available with commercial insulin preparations. Hence, engineering proinsulin gene in plants would have an added advantage over insulin.Other autoantigens in order of significance are Glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (GAD65), Insulinoma Associated-2 antigen (IA-2), Heat Shock Protein (HSP), Zinc transporter-8 (ZnT8), Pancreatic duodenal homeobox factor 1 (PDX1), Chromogranin A (CHGA). Immune therapies targeting GAD65 and Insulin have been tested in both animal models and in human T1D patients. Presence of a mucosal adjuvant or carrier molecule is required for enhancement of oral tolerance. Cholera Toxin Subunit B (CTB) has been shown to promote immunological tolerance against certain types of mucosally co-administered antigens, preferably tissue antigens linked to the CTB molecule. Cholera Toxin (CT) is made up of two types of subunits; subunit A being toxic and embedded in circular homopentamer of subunit B. The subunit B is responsible for binding of CT to its receptor, GM1 ganglioside. CTB is outstandingly stable against proteases, bile components and other factors in the intestinal milieu.References:Clemente-Casares X., Tsai S., Huang C. and Santamaria P. (2012) Antigen-Specic Therapeutic Approaches in Type 1 Diabetes. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med. 2: 1-23.Gong Z., Jin Y. and Zhang Y. (2007) Suppression of diabetes in non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice by oral administration of a cholera toxin B subunitinsulin B chain fusion protein vaccine produced in silkworm. Vaccine. 25: 14441451.Peakman M. and Herrath M. (2010) Antigen-Specific Immunotherapy for Type 1 Diabetes: Maximizing the Potential. Diabetes.59: 2087-2093.Roep B. O. and Peakman M. (2012) Antigen Targets of Type 1 Diabetes Autoimmunity. Cold Spring Harbor Perspectives in Medicine.2(4): 7781