 Tejasvita ApteThere are some pointers that can help you -- Know and understand that your friend isn't faking it. She cannot snap out of it. So, tell her that. She probably needs someone (other than doctors) to take her seriously. It can be seriously frustrating to not find a single soul who can understand what it is like.  Talk to her. Tread a little carefully because the defenses of your friend may be too strong but talk to her. This was one of the basic things nearly killing me and I still struggle. So, ask her how she is. Ask her how she is dealing with it and listen to her. Tell her you know it is real. For her, it is bloody real. The thing about depression is, it is a mental illness.Therefore, there is absolutely no point trying to fix the outside situation. Most people don't understand this, While it is likely that your friend may also be attributing her depression to an outside situation, depression is a deeper problem.It is not the same as sorrow or anxiety (while it is highly likely that sorrow and anxiety may be a part of it). So know that breaking your head over the so called solutions she can easily apply and come out of it won't help. Offer it if you really think they will help, but understand that depression is internal. Not external. It may be triggered or attributed to external causes. But depression is closely linked to learned helplessness. So, fixing the outside situation won't help. She has to fix what is going wrong inside. Encourage her to do physical activity, that helps. Take her for a jog or trekking, or swimming, or whatever she likes. Know that she is going to resist, but press on if you are close enough. Caveat - Do not press too much. About anything. Depression is often riddled with guilt, shame, anxiety, and all sorts of other emotions and you insisting will add to that. So, be mindful about it. I remember feeling guilty for feeling guilty in depression. And when I was not feeling guilty, I was guilty about not feeling it. I mean the shitty cycle is endless. Do not baby the person. Depression doesn't mean the person is incapable of thinking for themselves. If you try to take over their life and dictate everything, it will only add to their feeling of being a loser and losing control of their life. Encourage them to do something for others. Encourage them to physically do something for others. Like drawing up a handmade card. Or cooking for others. If they like pets, ask them to take care of a puppy. Or help a kid with her homework. Anything. Connecting with another non-judgmental life (human or animal) in a simple way can really help. At least short term. Encourage therapy. It helps. And if you are India - Don't freak out if your friend says she is taking therapy! She is dealing with her issues in the healthiest manner! Instead of lining up in front of a religious nut, she is taking help from a psychologist trained to help her. It is good. For some reason, going to a therapist is a huge taboo in India. I mean I find it hard to reason that people don't mind ranting their problems on a Television show before a religious nut but going to a therapist will suddenly and directly make you "mad". I have seen people substituting medicines for a sacred thread or some other such bs and getting worse. All this due to the social stigma. If you know a friend battling depression or any other mental illness, take her to a therapist. Break the taboo. Accompany her if need be. But stop this whispering, shushing and speaking in low voices while talking about therapy. It only adds to all the mess we live in. Let us please break this stupid taboo and take help wherever needed. Healthy mind is equally (if not more?) important than a healthy body. A therapist helps with that. If you really care about the person and if the person is close enough, be there for them. It is going to be very difficult for you. But if you can do it (without feeling the pressure or out of obligation), be there. If you cannot, accept it. For your own sanity. The depressed person is not going to be their usual happy self. But she needs someone. And if she feels you are doing it out of obligation the guilt will probably prevent her from asking help.Yes, it can be guilt and not pride. It's not their ego but low self esteem. I used to feel so guilty for feeling miserable that I did not go anywhere because I feared I will spoil other people's day. So, be there if you can and talk to your friend. Also cut yourself some slack because being around a depressed person isn't easy. Another thing, is you are really close to this person, their defenses can be very high against you. Which means that reaching out to them will be a huge task for you. You may have to keep trying for long. But know that the person needs it.A depressed person is in a deep pit inside their mind where it is completely dark, cold and empty. Empty. Empty. Empty. Remember those words. That's how she feels. So, love her. Express it. She needs it.If the person is suicidal, take immediate help. Professional help. I have heard of enough cases where people took their lives in the most desperate of moments. I have even met some whose attempts were not successful. So depression is dangerous if the person is suicidal. Lastly, don't blame yourself if the person attempts it. It is never on you.