 Tejasvita ApteFascinating question. One that has haunted me time and again. Not just Karna, every commander of the Kaurava Army is killed by unethical means. Bheeshma is killed by bringing Shikhandi and exploiting Bheeshma's vow. Drona is killed by Yudhishthir lying about the death of his son which deeply saddens him and he gives up his arms. ( The famous 'Naro va Kunjaro va' scene) Karna is killed when he was disarmed. Even Duryodhana despite the Pandavas nearly winning the battle is killed by Bheema unethically. He is hit under the waist against the rules of the mace battle. One possible explanation is already well articulated by Ishita. I would try and look at it from another perspective. And again, this is my perspective. Very personal. I think throughout Mahabharata, everyone is trying to find 'Dharma'. But it remains elusive. We never get an answer. Whether it is Krishna convincing Arjuna to fight with his impeccable arguments, or it is Karna remaining loyal to Duryodhana despite knowing that he is Kunti's son, or it is Bheeshma sticking to his vow despite there being dire necessity for him to let it go, or any other situation, where every character ends up making a choice. Everybody uses the arguments that suit them. Every body thinks they are following Dharma. So, saying Mahabharata was a 'Dharma Yuddha' need not necessarily mean that whatever happened in the war was right. It can possibly mean that the Yuddha (war) was a way of trying to find 'Dharma'. Seek it. Follow it. Everyone is trying to do it in their own ways.Who truly won and who truly lost... who is right and who is wrong... who is good and who is bad... What is dharma and what is not... Who's to say? You seek for yourself and find! Because despite being God, Krishna is killed by a stray arrow. Despite winning, the Pandavas are never happy and finally renounce the throne. Despite winning, Krishna is cursed by Gandhari and the curse comes to fruition. Despite losing, Karna is the greatest lamented hero and is lauded by one and all. Mahabharata never says the heroes won and end of story. It tells you that even for the heroes to win, every commander of the Kaurava Army had to be killed unethically. It tells you that despite his faults, Duryodhana was known for his generosity to friends and despite his greatness, Yudhishthir had a weakness for dice games and over-pragmatism (Ok, that is my opinion!!). Mahabharata is about seeking Dharma. It demonstrates that the path of Dharma is subtle. Not black and white. It doesn't give you custom made right answers. It forces you to think. And choose. The quintessential dilemmas of life! For more such posts and answers, follow my blog - Mindful musings