 Tejasvita ApteThere is some excellent research done by many in this regard. I am writing this answer based on all that I have been reading over the years. 1. Substitution (Schema, Social Cognition) - When prompted to answer a difficult question, people usually substitute it with a simple question and answer it! - This was expounded by George Plya in his book, How to solve it."If you cant solve a problem, then there is an easier problem you can solve: find it.This is the crux of mental substitution we very often make without realizing it. Consider this - "How happy is your life?" is a difficult question to answer. The usual substitution is - "How is your mood right now?". The latter is what people choose to answer.  "What more can you do to save endangered species?". The usual substitution is "What do I feel about the dying black buck or fish?""What measures should be taken for protection of children from the underworld?". The usual substitution is "How much anger do I feel against the exploitation of children". This is not to say that such substitution happens all the time, but it is fairly common! 2. Anchoring effect (Heuristics, Social Cognition) - Anchoring effect is fairly common and we are affected by it all the time without realizing it. Anchors have been used by people to their advantage many times too. Companies have been using it as a marketing tool for long. Consider this - Presume you do not know the actual answer to the question and are going to take a guess. If asked - "Was Gandhi more than 150 years old when he died?"Or "Was Gandhi less than 20 years of age when he died?"Both the questions are obviously absurd and you would know that instantly. After either on of this anchoring question is asked, suppose if you are asked this - "What do you estimate was Gandhi's age when he died?"If you were asked the first question, you are likely to make a much larger estimate of Gandhi's age when he died. And if you were asked the second question, you are more likely to estimate his life shorter. This is how Anchoring works. A lot of studies have been conducted to check if the effect of anchoring can be removed, but most have concluded that it is very difficult (nearly impossible) to remove the effects of anchoring. NLP techniques focus a lot on Anchors too but I am not very sure if they oversell the use of anchors! I believe they do! Anchors to me look more like suggestions that affect your estimation. Normally these are the first suggestions given to you while taking a decision. You just rely on it far too much! Another example could be in negotiations where anchors act as the boundaries. For an asking price of Rs.100/-, you may bargain to get the thing for Rs.80/-, but you wont think of asking the person to give it to you for Rs.5/-. Or you are more likely to buy on a discount of 80% because of the anchors! Anchors are affected by plenty of other factors too. Anchors are also often, the short cuts our brain uses to come to decisions faster. 3. Availability Heuristic (Social Cognition) - Yet again a lot of studies have been conducted in this. The work of Daniel Kahneman is impressive. So is the work of Noam Chomsky (though there may be a lot of controversy there!)This has been known to mankind forever! Authoritarian governments have used this time and again. This also tells us how important a role the media plays! Availability heuristic rests on the idea that anything that can be recollected by our mind easily must be more important than that which cannot be! This also directly goes contrary to the notion that human decisions are very rational! Most often people make decisions based on recent information and latest news that can be brought to mind quickly! In the 1960s and 70s, Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman did ground breaking research in this regard. Consider how we exaggerate the likelihood of dying in a terrorist attack because the media covers it heavily. When asked to rate the probability of a variety of causes of death, people tend to rate "newsworthy" events as more likely because they can more readily recall an example from memory. (1) This is all because familiarity can often be confused with the truth! Our brain cannot really distinguish between the two! Something authoritarian governments have known all along! Say something as true for long enough and people will think it is! (There is a good amount of interesting criticism against this too. I personally do think this exists to an extent.Though there are situations that can be termed as exceptions. Do give it a read)4 - Actor - observer asymmetry (Attribution, Social Cognition) - There is a clear difference in perspectives between the actor and the observers! This is mainly with reference to attribution. The actor tends to attribute the success or failure to his situation and the observers to the nature or overall personality of the actor. Consider this - While preparing for an exam, if you succeed, you are more likely to attribute that to the easy question paper than your own genius. While others are more likely to claim - "Oh, she passed? Well she is brilliant anyway!"Similarly, if you make a mistake, you are more likely to look at it in that situation and judge yourself, while others are more likely to attribute it to your innate nature. Point being that the Actors attribute it to situations while the observers to the innate nature of the Actor. Note - This isn't about who is right or wrong. This is just to demonstrate the obvious difference in perspectives that exist between the Actor and the Observer. This is also sometimes referred to as the Fundamental attribution error. And there are some obvious exceptions like the self-serving bias. Do check out more on this. 5. Endowment effect / Theory of loss aversion (Heuristics, Social Cognition) - Once again, a very interesting thing we all do but aren't aware of! In the early 1970s, Richard Thaler, then a graduate student in the economics department of University of Rochester observed something unique for the first time. Works something like this - Suppose you hold a ticket to a sold out concert by a popular band, which you bought at the regular price of $200. You are an avid fan and would have been willing to pay up to $500 for the ticket. Now you have your ticket and you learn on the Internet that richer or more desperate fans are offering $3,000. Would you sell? If you resemble most of the audience at sold-out events you do not sell. Your lowest selling price is above $3,000 and your maximum buying price is $500. This is an example of an endowment effect, and a believer instandard economic theory would be puzzled by it.This difference exists because of theory of loss aversion in humans. Once a person owns an item, forgoing it feels like a loss, and humans are loss-averse. Losing something you have is a lot worse than never having something you wanted! Endowment effect is the theory that the value of an object is increased because of your ownership of it! Theory of loss aversion has been in play in law for long! For instance, in courts a person who loses his goods is more likely to be compensated for his loss of goods and costs than his loss of profits. Eyal Zamir points out that the distinction drawn in the law betweenrestoring losses and compensating for foregone gains may be justified bytheir asymmetrical effects on individual well-being. If people who lose suffer more than people who merely fail to gain, they may also deserve more protection from the lawA similar thing can be observed in the human emotion of regret.I theorize here and there is no such theory.We are often told - "You shouldn't regret your decision later". Apparently, this seems to play a huge role in our decision making. The reason yet again seems to be risk aversion. Because the regret we feel of a wrong decision is worse than the happiness of the right one!! Consider a situation where you have a choose between a conventional approach and a non-conventional one. The reason why most people choose to confirm is exactly this. Most people feel worse (regret more) after taking the non-conventional decision than if they fail after taking a conventional decision. Because on the hindsight (after making the wrong decision), taking the non-conventional approach is a lot less forgivable than taking a conventional approach. The regret you feel is a lot more in the former than the latter. Risk aversion on the hindsight. 6. Just world Hypothesis (Attribution, Social Cognition) - While this is a fairly common topic of discussion in philosophy as well I would restrict myself to its connotations in psychology. This is the presumption that the world is just and fair and working according to some divine master plan. It manifests itself psychologically when some inexplicable injustice is attributed as deserved by the self / victim. Common examples would be rape victims blaming themselves or others blaming them. In what is perhaps a little ironic is the fact that studies suggest that depressed people often lack this kind of thinking! They see the world more realistically, so to speak! 7 - Milgram Study - (Obedience, Social Influence)This study was conducted in the aftermath of 2nd world war to understand how is it that people followed such inhuman orders in Nazi Germany. Can the people following be called accomplices and culpable? Equally? Stanley Milgram designed an experiment to see if participants would harm (shock) another individual due to the need to comply with authority. Milgram developed a pseudo-shock generator with labels beginning at 15 volts (Slight Shock) to 450 volts (XXX). Participants took on the role of teacher and were informed they would be participating in a learning and memory test. In doing so, they had to teach the student (a confederate in a separate room) a list of words. The teacher was instructed to increase the voltage by 15 and shock the student each time he answered incorrectly. When a subject began to grow uneasy about shocking the confederate (due to voltage level, noises, ethics, etc.) the experimenter would encourage the participant to continue by proclaiming he would assume full responsibility for any harm done to the student and by saying phrases such as It is absolutely essential that you continue. To rule out sadistic tendencies, all 40 teachers were male and were screened for competence and intelligence before beginning the experimentResults - 100% of male participants delivered up to 300 volts (Intense) to their assigned student. 62% of participants administered 375 volts (Strong Shock) and 63% participants shocked their student at the maximum level (450 volts).When these alterations to the original experiment were made, the rate of compliance was not reduced:The victim claimed to have a heart conditionSubjects were told the experiment was being conducted for marketing purposesBefore the experiment began, the student extracted an explicit agreement from the teacher to stop on demandSource - Milgram experimentThere is also the much discussed Stanford Prison experiment on similar lines. 8. Foot in the door and door in the face techniques (Compliance, Social Influence) - These techniques are a part of compliance (psychology). The first one is where you ask for a small favour first. Say you want to borrow Rs 50/-. You don't directly ask that, you ask a smaller favour first. You ask the person to pass you a newspaper. Or anything like that. And then you ask your favour. Chances are the person will feel obligated to help you out because they did you a small favour first. The latter technique is where you ask the big favour and when it is denied, you ask a smaller one which shall be complied with because the person feels bad about denying the first favour. You should obviously know which technique to use where! The first one may work well with strangers, while the second one is often used by children to ask favours from their parents! There is also cognitive dissonance at play here. Which brings me to - 9. Cognitive Dissonance - Cognitive dissonance is the internal strife each person has between two opposing notions. The theory says that nobody likes it and that people do all they can to attain a state of internal congruence. Sometimes we create a new cognition or sometimes adapt to the changing one.  In an example case where a person has adopted the attitude that they will no longer eat high fat food, but eats a high-fat doughnut, the four methods of reduction are:Change behavior or cognition ("I will not eat any more of this doughnut")Justify behavior or cognition by changing the conflicting cognition ("I'm allowed to cheat every once in a while")Justify behavior or cognition by adding new cognitions ("I'll spend 30 extra minutes at the gym to work this off")Ignore or deny any information that conflicts with existing beliefs ("This doughnut is not high in fat")Source - Cognitive dissonanceCognitive dissonance is extremely common and we are engaging in a lot of the methods without realizing it. Well, ever failed a test and decided the course was not worth it? Ever took a decision and reinforced the belief that the decision taken was the right one all along? This happens every time you take a decision! Except when the reality is too strong to ignore. In which case, Cognitive dissonance once again is at work, only the other way round!Every did something you didn't like doing for a higher goal? If you did, there is a huge chance that you are going to exaggerate the desirability of the goal! Ever made an irrevocable choice? You are going to be happy with it! Because Cognitive dissonance theory will not allow you feel regret for too long! Studies suggest that bettors at a racetrack are more confident in their chosen horse just after placing the bet because they cannot change it!! Confirmation bias is yet another example of Cognitive Dissonance theory. P.S. I feel like my whole life is a play of Cognitive Dissonance!! Actually, the whole of life! Not just mine. :) Well, this answer tells me it's a Sunday well spent. :) For more on life, psychology and thinking, follow my blog - Mindful musings