 Tejasvita ApteExistential questions. I have been dealing with those most of my life and I truly find it bizarre that none of my friends are concerned with these - Why do I exist? Who am I?How much of my life is really in my hands? Who / What created all this? When do I cease to be? Am I imprisoned within my bounds? Does language really liberate us, or does it bind us? What is the FUCKING point? This is not to say that I don't live a normal life. It's just that I keep getting these questions a lot of times and I find it bizarre that most people can just brush them off or never even think of it in the first place. They find it weird when I point it out! I am called a weirdo but then I think isn't is very basic? To me it is. If I remember well, it started in school. And I remember once instance well. (Of course there are many that followed where people either thought I was 'enlightened' or something, or mad. Even dangerous!)I was probably 10 years old and our teacher was telling us about heart beats and pulse rates. She told us all to feel our own pulse. We were all very excited and felt it. She then told us that when the pulse stops, a person dies. People check the pulse. I asked her why. She said - "So they can know for sure that the person has died." I asked her - "No. Why do people die?"She was dumbstruck and she told me she doesn't know. No one does. God knows. I took it to my heart. My grand mother used to chant a lot of mantras / prayers as a part of her daily routine. When I had asked her who wrote all this, she had told me it was God's words. So, then I felt surely someone who knows what God said would know the answer. I asked her and am certain I thoroughly irritated her! But ya, basically since then. I picked philosophy when I was 15 and dived into it. Starting with Osho. I spent a lot of time in the Ashram. My college days are a bit hazy because 2 years out of 5 I am certain I lived in a totally different world! I volunteered for organizations like Art of living, Isha Yoga, Ramakrishna Mission, etc. I did vipassana, was part of the Sahaja Marga and Osho group. I am as close to solving my existential crisis as I was before! Nowhere near, that is! But the questions always plague me. And admittedly more so when I am depressed than when I was happy! (Every person tends to become a philosopher in sorrow!)A lot of it, is mental masturbation and nothing else. It does amaze me (a lot), that so many people can live life without these! I hope to achieve any of the following three, at the end of it all - 1. Accept myself fully and enjoy the questions with or without the answers. 2. Really find the answers for myself. 3. Say "Fuck it" and move on! Realize and accept that I may never know and that's OK! For more of these, follow my blog - Mindful musings