 Tejasvita ApteI believe so.Including 'medical' services under the definition of 'service' in the Consumer Protection law brings about transparency in the medical practice. Because end of the day it is service. What is also does is, it opens up the possibility of doctors and hospitals being sued for deficiency in service. So far so good. It should. Doctors are mainly sued for medical negligence. Negligence by law means - "Failure to maintain the standard of care necessary which a reasonable person in the situation is expected to have"It has the following ingredients - The defendant (Say the doctor here) should owe a duty of care to the plaintiffThe defendant should have breached this duty of care.The plaintiff (Say the patient here) should have suffered an injury due to this breach.To take a classic example of negligence - Drunk driving is negligence. When you drive a vehicle you are supposed to exercise reasonable care that any man of ordinary prudence would. When you don't do that, it is being negligent. Negligence by definition means that the intent would be immaterial. No drunk driver intends to harm another. Negligence is a classic case of strict liability of Tort where the intention will not be taken into consideration by the court. The problem like Raghuraj so eloquently already mentioned is true. Without repeating his points, let me add just a bit more. With the awareness of consumer rights more and more people are asserting them. This is good too. But we should strike the right balance. The right balance of punishing negligence and protecting difference of opinions and reasonable errors in judgment by doctors. I personally do not think difference of opinion should ever be questioned in the court of law where it can be shown that the difference was reasonable. I also go on to say that a mistake in diagnosis (where is isn't gross), shouldn't be punished either. Because end of the day doctors are humans and are allowed to make errors of judgment (again, where it isn't gross). Because in a doctor patient relationship, (fiduciary), it is highly rare that the doctor would act out of malice. To physically harm a person. So, intention of wrong doing can rarely be found. If we do start punishing them for the above, they will obviously end up becoming defensive. And well then, whose loss will it eventually be? Lastly, examples of gross negligence (to make it clear) that have been punished by courts in India are cases where the doctors left cotton swabs in the abdomen after surgery or even surgical scissors. That is gross negligence. The other example is where the doctors act without informed consent of the patient. Again, very rare. The rest, should be examined with caution by taking appropriate expert medical testimony if need be. For more on Indian laws, follow my blog - Blawgniti