 Tejasvita ApteBefore you buy into the propaganda, read more. The issue - The are protesting against the appointment of Gajendra Chauhan who is a member of BJP. They are also protesting against 4 members of the FTII panel who are Anagha Ghaisas, Narendra Pathak, Pranjlal Saikia, and Rahul SolapurkarThese four are associated with RSS, ABVP and BJP etc. My questions are simple. Since when do the students get a say in who is going to be the Principle of the College? OR who is going to be on the panel?Since when is it illegal for the heads of educational institutes to be associated with political or other social organizations? I studied in law college. I wanted the Chief Justice of India to head the college. Too bad, the world doesn't work according to my whims. What is being claimed as "saffronization" is clearly an attempt to malign the PM, the BJP and RSS. BJP and RSS are not banned organizations. One is political the other is social. Yes, they are closely linked together. But no law says that the director of an EDUCATIONAL institution should not have political choices. What's more bizarre is the fact that the students keep claiming that they oppose these people not because of their political inclinations but because of their creative potential. To me, that looks fairly simple. Every trust, body, entity has internal rules they have to follow while appointing a chairperson, head. Are they claiming that those are violated? Well, then they have a cause of action and they can sue. In all likelihood they will win and the Gajendra Chauhan will be removed. But too bad the institute doesn't seem to have violated any rule. Now you can't lead a protest just because you don't like your Principal. Or you still can but remember that the Institute is under no obligation to adhere you the students' idea of who is more creative. I mean an educational institution is not a democracy where you get to vote and choose your Principal. To my eyes, this looks like a really politically motivated stunt to systematically discriminate against RSS and BJP. More so because it is being funded by AISA and the like who are known communists and known for only their protests. If it were not politically motivated, I wouldn't be reading "saffronisation" of FTII etc. in newspapers immediately after his appointment. The man is just appointed and he hasn't even done anything. Before anything happens when they claim "saffronisation" it tells me they are discriminating against him solely because his political inclinations do not match their own. My response is - Suck it up. I didn't like the fact that the Principal of my institute was a communist (or any other 'ist') but that doesn't mean she was illegally appointed. If the appointment is legal, the students have no say. Again, this is not a democracy. Yet again, I cannot believe some people have sent me hate mails. Edit----Sachin Tendulkar's coach has never played the world cup. He is still qualified to coach Sachin Tendulkar.Making great films doesn't ipso facto mean that you would be a great educator too. Lastly, I don't support vandalism of any kind. If ABVP does that, it is wrong and they should be arrested and charged. But their vandalism doesn't justify the protest which is made without even giving the man a chance.