 Tejasvita ApteIs RSS really that bad? Absolutely not. RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) is a nationalist organization. I have seen and experienced just the opposite of what is reported. I grew up in a very 'Sanghi' environment! I grew up around RSS. My father used to be a Sanghachalak for many years. Most of his friends have been in RSS. Most of my family has been associated with RSS with my grand parents supporting RSS against the British rule. All I learnt and saw was love for India (matrubhoomi) and service to the society. A lot of things that are taught are essentially Hindu. Hindu festivals are celebrated. Soldiers are sent 'Raakhis'*. Children are taught Yoga and other healthy things. Indian arts and culture is promoted. Malla Khamb and traditional Indian body building is taught. Beyond that,wherever there is a natural disaster, help is provided. RSS men often have been the first ones to respond. RSS volunteers often aid the Army in rescue operations. Cleanliness drives are conducted. For intellectual stimulation, speeches of scholars from all walks of life are organized. Basically, people unite as Hindus and do constructive things for the society. To me, that's a good thing. Specially, given that no other religion is an exception to this. That is why I cannot understand why Hindus uniting as Hindus is suddenly a problem. For some reason, Indian media has tried very hard to convince people that being Hindu and stating it is something to be ashamed of. Or anti Secular. These people have not bothered to even read the dictionary definition of Secularism. So, I care a hang about what such paid media with ulterior motives say. In a way, Modi's victory tells me that people haven't really been fooled by the pseudo secularism of mainstream media and congress party. Why does it have so many members & supporters if it is so bad?Because the people who support RSS have seen what it is like. They have known the people from RSS. They are not some crazy fundamentalists. They are normal people like you and me. And even when I don't agree with some ideas of the RSS, I don't demonize them. Because that's false propaganda. People realize there are countless good things they've been doing for a long time. And the idiots who make stupid comments are exceptions blown out of proportion. I remember just one memory about what RSS men do. Earliest memory actually thatis etched in my mind. I was about 10. My teacher's husband was deathly sick. He was in the Hospital for months. They were from Odisha and didn't speak Marathi. They had no relatives or people who could help. They weren't in financial trouble. Just that she had 2 small children and couldn't leave them alone or take them to the hospital 24*7. The minute my father came to know, he asked some of the boys who used to attend his Shaakha ( RSS meet) for help. These were 20 year old boys. For the next 9 months, one or the other boy would sleep in the hospital with that man. Every night. My teacher still ties Raakhi to my father and two others who were there for her in her time of need. This is RSS. To this day, I am confident that if I go to any unknown city, I can go to the house of a person from RSS and I am certain I will be taken care of. * Raakhi is a sacred thread tied by a woman to her brother (or brother like relation) on the Indian festival of Raksha Bandhan.It symbolizes and celebrates the protective love that exists between brothers and sisters.