 Tejasvita ApteThis question is Compound. I'll try and peel it. Let's address the core beliefs that are untrue and often confused - 1. Firstly, most people think that worrying about others feelings shows that you care. Care shows that you love. If you don't worry, it means you do not care. If you do not care, you do not love.Worrying ==> Caring ==> Love2. Worrying (implied caring and love) about others feelings means complying with their demands. If you do not comply, that means you do not care. 3. Worrying (implied caring and love) about others feelings means giving them a priority over your own. If you don't, you are selfish or "emotionally strong"!. 4. If you don't worry (again implied caring and love) about their feelings you are emotionally strong. Because that shows you are not dependent on people. That you don't need emotional anchors. 5. Emotional strength is antagonistic to emotional expression. (And emotional expression of course is just the expression of worry with the implied caring and love idea)All of the above notions are not true. Let's get the difference between worrying and caring. For this context here, I do not mean the worry you feel for your loved one when they are battling cancer! I speak only in the context of this question. Let's say you are going for an adventure. Let's say you are going to trek the Himalayas. It is your dream. But it is also a bit dangerous. As your lover, I am concerned. Now I can give two different kind of reactions. Scene one - I say - Hey I am really concerned about you. I will be a little worried because the trek is dangerous but I know it's your dream. So, break a leg! Enjoy. I am waiting for you, eager to hear all about it! Scene two - I say- Hey I am very worried about you. Do you know how dangerous it is? I will not allow you to go because I cannot bear to lose you. If you also felt the same about me, you wouldn't go. If you go, that tells me you are abandoning me. You don't love me. In both these scenarios, you are expressing concern. But in the former it is caring. The latter is worry. The former has the other person's thought at the base. The latter is about you! Love is about the other. Love is about freedom. Caring. Balancing your needs with that of the other without either trying to control or becoming a doormat. An emotionally strong person understands this difference. Cares for people but doesn't worry. For more about life, psychology and philosophy, follow my blog - Mindful musings