 Tejasvita ApteThere is no sweet way of saying this, but Shiv Khera and the like ('The secret' comes to mind) are big frauds. This kind of success mantra, is stupid. Certainly wont work. And if it does, that would be an exception and not the norm. Totally opposite of what motivational speakers like him claim.Let me first explain how "think positive and all your problems will be solved / great success shall be yours" is fake. Let's first accept what motivational speakers get right. It is this -A positive outlook in life tends to have a positive impact on your life. This can boost our confidence and because of that, (or other changes) MAY yield positive results. Now let's see where they go wrong - 1. Disproportionate exaggeration of positive outlook - Look around. See happy faces in children? Yet some of them are molested. Look around, see happy and enthusiastic college students? Some of them die in traffic accidents. Most of them go through serious heart breaks in life. Most live an average life. Some end up in jails. None of this has anything to do with how positive you are, how happy or how GOOD or BAD. 2. Success depends on a lot of different factors - You need talent. You need money. You need people. You need timing. You need luck. You need all of this together to be successful. Whether it is a business, or love, or career. How many of these factors are in your hands, eh? And you still buy into the motivational BS? 3. Our happiness is not independent of others - And I am referring to the generic sense in which people say happiness - "If I find love I will be happy, if I buy a house I will be happy, If I have children I will be happy, If I have more money I will be happy" kind of happiness. Let's take an example - I will be happy if the love of my life says yes of my proposal. Now, Positive outlook can only come in as useful as it may help me muster courage or be a little confident in life while proposing. Lastly, it will be useful in coming to terms with his denial to my proposal. It cannot guarantee that he will say yes now can it? Believing that my positive attitude will ensure his acceptance (because many times my happiness depends on that too), is both idiocy and arrogance. Do you really think world works like that? Who do you think you are? Santa? Don't other's have free will? Things they want to do? I can go on and on with the logical fallacies in this kind of thinking. Let's come to the bigger point. Why are these motivational speakers so famous then? If their Mantra sucks that is - Because we want to believe them. Not just want, most of us Need to believe them. Pragmatism doesn't sell. Nor does existentialism. What sells is this motivational nonsense because if I tell you that happiness or success do NOT have a mantra any person can replicate, you aren't going to like it. What's more, you certainly won't pay me for it. I mean, your miserable life (like the rest of us) is a proof of the above paragraph already. Why would you pay someone to tell you just that? You'd rather pay someone who shows you a rosy future which may or may not be true but looks and feels good. Don't get me wrong. I am all for things that look and feel good as long as we do not lose the handle of reality. Life is random. Bad things can happen to good people and vice a versa. Look around. Open your eyes. Do you see a common plan, a divine theme, a master strategy? If you don't, the next time a motivational speaker tells you, all you need to be successful is THINK your way to success, get her to write that on a stamp paper. Sue her, if the idea doesn't work. If you do see a divine plan, a common theme, a master strategy, pay money to the next religious nut you believe in, to remove all your problems. In both these situations, you would be depending upon anchors to "make sense" of this random world. Motivational speakers of today are not much different than the religious nuts of decades before who had the arrogance to claim that they had reduced the world's issues to a masterful plan. That they had figured it all out. A mantra. Does it mean there is no value in being positive? Of course not. Being positive and being happy has its own power. It keeps you sane. It gives you energy and enthusiasm. It can help deal with sorrow. It motivates you and others to do better and it creates harmony and peace. What it doesn't do is make you a millionaire just by THINKING about it. Does it mean we shouldn't do everything in our power to make great success ours? Or be happy?Again, No. The point of this answer is not to give you a depressed outlook of life.The point is to not exaggerate and believe absurd claims. The point is to live your life and discover for yourself it's beauty and sorrow in full glory. The point is to be able to have a positive outlook not because you will get what you want (you may or you may not), but because that is the best way to live. The point is to be positive despite everything and not because of something or just to achieve something. The only thing I have been able to understand so far is this -Happiness most often has nothing to do with any of the things we think would help. Happiness ensues. ENSUES. Now go figure for yourself how you can enable this ensuing. Nobody can give you a custom made answer to that. If they claim to do, run fast and run far. They are banking upon your naive (Only naive?) view of a just world when the opposite reality is clearly right in front of your eyes.