 Tejasvita ApteThe reason why government policies come out in Hindi and English is because those are the two official languages of the Central government. The states have state languages, along with English as official languages. Aravind Aldk's answer is ridiculous. Nobody is trying to prove the superiority of any language. Nor is there any Aryan Dravidian nonsense fight involved in this. When India became independent, in 1947 the situation was this - There was utter chaos. There were princely states within the control of the kings. More than 500 of them. There were British presidency towns like Bombay, Madras and Calcutta. (Those were the names then. Now they are called Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata). And then there were cities like Goa and Pondicherry not under the control of either the British or the Indians. On top of that there was the Hindu - Muslim divide increased manifold due to the partition. Add to all this the fact that each region in India, spoke a different language with a distinct script of its own!When the Constitution was being drafted, the issue of official language of India came up. English wasn't spoken by even 1% of the population back then and even today majority Indians prefer Indian languages over English. What's more, that was the language of the colonizers. So, the framers were certain that one of the official languages of India had to be an Indian language. What do you do when you are stuck with a subcontinent where people spoke so many diverse languages? This was the actual situation - There are three groups of languages in India. Indo-Aryan, Indo-Dravidian and Sino-Indian languages. Indo Dravidian Languages include the 4 south Indian languages ( Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam) along with the dialects thereof. Sino Indian languages are languages of the North-East India.The rest of the languages are Indo-Aryan (like Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, Bengali etc.) At the time of framing of the Constitution 24% of India's population spoke Indo Dravidian Languages with 12% among them speaking Telugu. So, any Indo Dravidian language becoming the Official language of India was simply not practical. The population speaking Sino Indian languages was negligible.The Rest of the population in India i.e. 76% spoke Indo Aryan Languages. Out of these 76%, percentage of people speaking Hindi and its dialects was 44%. See the problem now? The framers chose Hindi because at least a chunk of the population spoke the language. Additionally, the rest of the population which spoke Indo-Aryan languages, understood Hindi for the most part even if they couldn't speak it fluently. Therefore, it has nothing to do with which language is superior or inferior. A side note on linguistic fights in India - Stop the ridiculous fights about which language is superior to which other because it is X years old or close to Sanskrit or some other such reason. Learn languages wherever you can. They are tools of communication. Not ammunition to fuel bigotry. For more about Indian law, Constitution, her governance and politics follow my blog - Blawgniti