 Tejasvita ApteOk, the edit was hilarious. I am not presuming anything and answering this question! I will tell you all the sides of this story. Most guys are clueless and scared. Just as the girls are. (If you only want to read what the guy feels, scroll down and go towards the end)Let's see how things happen normally in middle class India barring the extremes (Because India is huge and there can be many stories). I am presuming neither is a minor for the story would be very different then. I also presume that neither is independent and living alone. If people are independent and living on their own, older and wiser (say in their 30s), this may not even be an issue. So, assuming you are studying and living with your parents - Girls' side of the story - Pregnancy before marriage is a huge taboo and there is hardly any state agency to help women out. Abortions in such cases are also a huge taboo where the girl (and her family if they know) go through a serious couvert mission of getting it done without anybody's knowledge. As is often the case, the word spreads and since the girl's identity is recognizable, there is social stigma. If the guy is otherwise decent (normally), the parents may ask if they intend to marry. It is also likely that they may force the two to marry. Assuming this doesn't happen, they'll marry her off to someone else. Most likely scenario is this. What does the girl feel? If she loves the guy, she may expect him to marry. If she doesn't then she may feel stupid and sad. Normally, she will feel dirty because that is what will be thrown at her by her parents and others. She will feel SHAME. She will feel sorrow for the baby who has come into existence and who hasn't done anything wrong. If the guy abandons her, she will feel worse and if he sticks by, she may have some support. What do her parent's feel? In all of this, the parents of the girl tend to take it highly personally in the sense that their "parenting and conditioning" (referred to as "sanskaar" in India) went wrong and they are either paying for the sins of their previous births (if they are religious), or have gone wrong somewhere in their approach in raising their daughter. They also tend to think that her entire life is ruined which is the epitome of exaggeration normally. They will both be very angry with their daughter and at the same time very concerned thinking about her future. It is out of this fear, anxiety and sense of moral wrong that they may get her married to "make it right". In case they abort - If the girl has her parent's support and if they live in a city, abortion isn't a problem. If requires some paper work but needs only the girl's consent. The father's name is 'asked' but writing anything suffices as no proofs are required. Even then, if they end up going to an unknown doctor of hospital there are chances that they may be treated badly as pregnancy before marriage makes the woman a "slut" and it is a huge taboo. If the girl has to do everything alone, god save her! She may be questioned by everybody and most people she encounters are automatically going to presume a parental role and start ordering her around (well, because this is India, and it is their business!). If she wants to keep the baby - She may not have this choice as it is very rare. But assuming legal time limit for abortion is passed or for some other reason she decides to have the baby, it will be a battle. Though there is no law which says she can't. It will be a social battle. Her parent's support would matter the most (or her own independence) and if that is there, her life may well be easier. She can sue the father and the court may order him to pay maintenance to the child if it is proved that it is his child. She can now even be the sole guardian of the child without the need to disclose the father's name. There is barely any scope of having the baby and then giving it up for adoption. That is seen as abandonment in India and is highly looked down upon. So, girls will have the baby only if they are sure they want it. The first option most often is abortion whether they like it or not. Coming to the boy - What does he feel? He most likely is worried, anxious and scared. He hardly has any choice as far as what is to be done with the pregnancy. He has to go by what the girl (and her family) decide. If they decide to abort and he wants the baby, he can't do anything. If they decide to have the baby and he doesn't want it, he cannot force an abortion either. If he cares about the girl (which he most likely will), he will feel really bad for her given that her situation will be worse than his. He may feel responsible for getting her pregnant and feel guilty. There is really no reason though to feel guilty if it was accidental and not reckless.He may try and help her as best as he can and be the emotional anchor. But his situation is pretty helpless too. He may feel powerless and frustrated. He may also feel ashamed as boys too have the same conditioning as girls except that he has the option of not owning any responsibility while the girl doesn't have that choice. The boy out of heroism or a sense of moral responsibility may agree to or want to marry (presuming there is no genuine love and intention to marry in the first place) or may run off. He cannot be forced obviously in which case for the girl and her family he ends up becoming the biggest villain who led their girl astray. While in reality he is just a scared person who isn't ready to marry or have a baby. Just like the girl! He may want to marry out of love too if he thinks he is ready. Lastly, he may be sued for the maintenance of the child and if it's his, then the court will pass an order against him to pay child support. To the dudes who are going to argue with me on this, read why the law is like this here -  Why should I have to pay child support?It isn't about you or her, child support is about the child. Lastly, since you asked "How do you deal with" in the question too - Ideally, this is really not such a big deal as accidental pregnancies are fairly common. The girl is the sole person who has the right to decide if she wants to abort or have the baby. She should be allowed that. Of course after fully understanding and accepting ALL of the consequences. Both the parents ought to just ask the kids and support them through whatever decision the girl takes. Unless the two are underage, there is no reason to have "THE TALK" with them as accidental pregnancies can happen even when you are 40! The girl needs real care in all this regardless of whether she aborts or has the baby.Hope this helped.If you liked my answer, you can follow my blog - Mindful musings