 Guilt eats you from inside. I know that well. There are a few things that can be done about it. From all that you have written, I see the following - I see a teenager who didn't know how to handle his sexuality. (It can happen). I see a young boy who wasn't very clear about the concept of consent. (It can happen)I see a young man living in the past. (It can happen)I see a young man torn between wanting to take responsibility by confessing his actions while fearing people's judgment. (Most natural)I see a young man battling shame. (Toxic. But it can happen)Here are a few things that can help - You cannot change your pastYou just can't. So, feeling ashamed and guilty won't help. It is natural to feel it though. So, even if you think your feelings won't change, your actions can. Change your present and future. This you are already doing so good. Channelize your guilt and shameYou want to confess? Confession is taking responsibility. But remember confession is not for others. It is for you. So, you do not owe it to others to know this about you. You owe it to yourself to feel whole. So, choose one person. A person who you think will understand. If you don't have any such person, go to a therapist. Talking to a neutral third person is good enough. Confess. Let it all out. Take responsibility but don't overdo it. In my case, I was overdoing it. Classic neurosis. Forgive yourselfRegardless of whether or not your wrong was intentional, it hurt another person. That is pain to someone else at your behest. Feeling guilty is a natural byproduct of it. Transform that guilt into remorse. When you feel guilty, it is still about you. "How could I do it?".. "I am the most pathetic person under the sun"... So on and so forth. Wallowing in self-pity. Remorse is when the sorrow for the other person is the base of your pain. It happens through empathy. When you see it all like this, you would be able to forgive yourself. Not to let yourself off the hook easily, but to understand and feel that your actions have the potential of hurting others. With that realization and power comes a huge responsibility of not hurting others and behaving responsibly. If you feel that pain, you would find it in your heart to forgive yourself as well as others (if they have wronged you in any manner. Because I know that often, underneath one wrong, there is another one and the cycle continues. It may not be that girl you troubled, it could be someone else. Whoever or whatever that is, forgive that too. Or you would never move on).This has been one of the greatest lessons of my life too. Responsibility, remorse and forgiveness. For more on life, psychology and understanding human behaviour, follow my blog - Mindful musings