 research throughout the world on this. There is good amount of literature in India stating the effect of various raagas in curing illnesses. Oliver Sacks is known to have used music a lot in healing neurological conditions in many of his patients. His work is well documented. I have personally been experimenting with music for long. I have started maintaining a diary of it. I seem to have Chromesthesia, so I wish to get some insights from neurologists some day. I have also known (since the time I can remember) that music has a very strong hold / deep impact on me. Sound itself has that effect. Just when I thought I was recovering, I went into a major depressive episode after listening to death metal rock music for a couple of days. Let me be clear, that I happened to like it. Or I wouldn't have listened to it. Despite that, there was a clear relapse. So much so that I found it hard to get out of bed for 3 straight days. (This happened 2 months back). I am not entirely sure if there is any connection between the two but I am too scared to try immediately now! But I do hope to go back to trying it again to see the impact of death metal on me some day. Similar has been my journey with Indian classical music. I have been using it on myself for therapeutic purpose for quite some time now. I have also made it a point to not read about the purpose before hand. This helps me in making sure that my mind is not prejudiced by my reading of therapeutic advantages of Indian classical music. If it helps it helps, if it doesn't it doesn't. I wouldn't want a placebo! So far, Raag Tilak Kamod, Bageshree, and Hamsadhwani have really helped in lifting my spirits. Maalkauns, Behag and Komal Rishabh Asavari are very touching and I find myself moved to tears quite often by them. (These tears are happily emotional!). Ahir Bhairav is meditative. So is Bhairav and Todi. I am listening and maintaining a diary of the effect of music on me! I would some day love to expand this research on others to see if the results match. Additionally, I am fascinated by the sound of language. I enjoy listening to any foreign tongue. It is highly pleasurable. I also listen to music without paying heed to the language. My brain is so trained to ignore the words while listening to music that I have to take efforts to appreciate the lyrics! As a result, I can sing in about 15-16 languages without understanding the words at all. My musical memory seems to be superb! So no, there is no way around it. Man is a musical creature too. Just as he is a linguistic and sexual creature. You cannot have alternatives to that. For more of these, follow my blog - Mindful musings.