 Let me be honest and tell you, Classical music many times is an acquired taste. Personally, I was exposed to classical music since infancy. Apparently, I used to listen with a lot of focus.Then there came a stage where I was a fan of a lot of contemporary music and rebelled against everything old! That was in early teens. Of course I realized in about 2 years that my first love will be Carnatic Classical music! The other reason of my exposure to Carnatic Classical music was learning Bharathnatyam. With Hindustani classical music, my interest and love grew with a lot of time and serious listening. Let me tell you something about classical music (Specially Hindustani classical music) - Hindustani classical music is melody based (So is Carnatic). Any rendition, starts with Vilambit lay (very slow tempo), then you have Madhya lay (medium tempo), and then Drut lay (Fast tempo). Our ears are not exposed to appreciate the nuances of Vilambit (slow tempo). We haven't acquired the taste. It sounds the same. The truth of course is the fact that the rendition is so nuanced, that a lay ear cannot capture the intricacy. Which is why a lot of people find it boring, monotonous or drone like. So, as a beginner, you can start with Drut Bandish (fast tempo) of any raaga. Then go to Madhya lay (medium tempo) and then Vilambit lay (slow tempo).If I have to use an analogy, I can compare it with the movements in Art! (There you go. I can't help evoke a visual with sound! Even if it is intellectual.) We attained a sort of zenith with classicism. The classic paintings were nuanced, deep and very detailed. They had definitions, structure, methods, forms and a lot of intricacies. And then came Romanticism or even better, Impressionism! While it brings a beauty of its own, the classic paintings too deserve to be relished! But by now, we are used to flamboyant use of colours, impressions, reveling the beauty of the entire painting instead of taking the time to appreciate each stroke of a classic painting. So, to slow down, efforts are required. Another perspective needs to be developed.Same is the case with classical music. The most practicable method to do so is to take a plunge. Listen. Listen a lot. Listen to different styles (gharanas). Listen to vocals and instrumentals. Listen to different raagas and listen to the same raagas again and again. Listen to thumri (semi classical), Dhrupad (A different and older style of classical singing.) and Khyal (contemporary classical music). Start with Drut (fast tempo) or even fusion if you like that better. Or start with Taranas (the Carnatic equivalent is Thillana). Tarana is a composition where syllables are chosen for their rhythmic beauty and pleasing sound and don't have any meaning.Excellent for beginners. Enjoy the music. Flow with it and be mindful of the things it evokes within you.Music is my life's greatest pleasure. :)Just FYI - By the end of it though, I hope you know you don't have to like Hindustani classical music! Now for some delicious recommendations, you can begin with - 1. Tarana in Raag Hamsadhwani by Kishori Amonkar - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...This very same Tarana by Raghunanadan Panshikar is equally awesome. Do give it a listen. I am quite a fan of his voice! 2. Yaad piya ki aye (Thumri) by Kaushiki Chakrabarty - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...One of my favorite thumris. You will find a lot of fusion versions of this one. Some of them are worth listening too. 3. Koyaliya bole Ambwa by Pandit D.V. Paluskar (Drut Bandish in Raag Tilak Kamod)https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...I am in love with Kamod itself! It is therapeutic I tell you! And his voice is very sweet. You can try all Drut Bandishes by D.V. Paluskar. If I am not wrong, they are all recorded under the label called 'Golden milestones'. 4. Aan sunai Bansari Kaan by Gundecha Brothers (Raag Komal Rishabh Asavari) -Dhrupadhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...I can seriously die listening to Dhrupad by Gundecha Brothers. Hypnotic. I tend to like Dhrupad more than Khyal sometimes! For excellent fusion, try Instrumentalists and groups like Shakti (another band I love!), though it is not strictly a fusion of Hindustani classical. Start from things you like and explore more! The world of music and sound is rich! Happy listening. :)P.S. If you do end up liking something I recommend, drop me a line. It gives me immense pleasure to share music!