 This isn't a fun or sweet answer, but a serious one. Deception starts at a very young age. A lot of it is unintentional of course, but it contributes on the whole. When a parent feels angry at the child and instead of healthily expressing it, shows love, it's deception. Express anger (albeit healthily) and your child will know that her actions can evoke anger in people and she will then have to deal with the consequences of it.  She will also understand that it is Okay to be angry and express it. When parents overdo the "Oh you are very special" with their children, they deceive them. I think appreciating every thing the child does, even if they suck at it, is unhealthy and deceptive. Trying to learn something new as an approach should be encouraged and appreciated, but if the child draws a monkey while aiming to draw an elephant, she should be told what it really looks like. And rather than saying she did a great job, she should be told it is not great drawing but if she enjoys drawing she should do it anyway.Parents should know the difference between appreciating the effort and appreciating the final product. The world cares a hang about your effort and children should learn that.When parents try to over protect their children and in the process don't ever have a disagreement in front of the children, they deceive them. They deceive them into believing in a world without disagreements while in reality it is impossible to find two people agreeing on everything. I think children should be taught to communicate disagreements without so much as raising their voices. Self assertion and considering another point of view are very important skills to learn and people later join classes to learn it! I believe it can be taught quite easily if parents themselves have good communication and understanding. All in all, I think most parents do end up deceiving children one way or another. The best way children deceive themselves is by blaming it all on the parents!! There is always a limitation period on blaming your parents! After a point, regardless of their deceptions, it is always on you! For more of such mindful babble, follow my blog - Mindful musings