 Thank you for asking me to answer this question Vishwathika. I also have to mention two other people who requested me to answer this. Thank you. As agreed, I am not tagging you! I do not consider myself highly anything. But well yes, I do think I am above average. I was also battling whether I should really be answering this but then decided to take a stab anyway. I decided because I realized that we are not encouraged to embrace our physical beauty (At least in my case). Somehow we are taught to be ashamed of it. There is a lot of social pressure. Well, I am breaking it and answering this question! In my country, I am considered attractive for two reasons - Firstly because I have fair skin (by Indian standards of course). Sadly, that is the definition of beauty for most Indians. Secondly, because I have symmetrical features. That seems to be something most people in the world term attractive and I too find myself attracted to men with symmetrical features. Other than that, there isn't anything much. I have to also say that I am not at all photogenic. In fact, in every photo of mine, I look extremely different. Here is a photo - With intellect, I have been taking efforts for long. Since childhood. Books have been my best friends and I have had intellectual pursuits all my life. Although I never aced exams, I was excellent with knowledge. In college and later, people have been coming up to me with questions and I have had a very satisfying journey as a teacher of law. There are perks as well as flip sides. Perks of being attractive - People notice you. People assist you. Very rarely people forget me. More so if they speak with me. People (men) have readily helped me out when I have had any issue. That is probably a perk of being a young girl too. I can't be sure. But I have experienced men readily helping me out when I was in distress than say a young boy. The world is quite unfair in the sense that it is simply nicer to good looking people. I have been very conscious of never taking undue advantage of this fact. Other than that, I don't see anything much. Flip side of being attractive -Since she is good looking, obviously she won't have brain - Many times, the biggest misconception a lot of people have when they first meet me is this. I encountered that sentiment the most when I was practicing in courts. For some reason, people presumed I wouldn't be intelligent and didn't shy away from showing surprise when I argued and kicked their ass in court! One incident is very distinct in my mind. I was arguing against a very senior advocate. It was a simple argument of maintenance for my client. Since it was a very small argument, I was asked to argue. This was just 2 years back. I looked tiny in front of the senior advocate. He looked complacent ( as many senior advocates do!). After I finished my argument the judge told me 'well argued'. (She also later passed an order in my favour!) As I left and came out of the court room, the advocate followed. He told me he never expected me to argue so well. I politely just asked him why! He was a tad bit uncomfortable at my question and quickly mumbled that generally girls as young as I, didn't. I just smiled. He told me he would be happy to buy me a cup of tea since I argued so well. You never refuse a senior advocate. So, I agreed. This is just one of those countless encounters I have had where people naturally presumed that I wouldn't be intelligent. There is also the general belief that beautiful people get away with sloppy work. Because of this, I have encountered people presuming that just because I looked nice, I would be sloppy with my work. Well, I have been happy to prove them wrong. HarassmentI have been molested and have encountered many incidents where I was groped at and harassed. This isn't uncommon. Because I was a fair and beautiful child, I was molested even as a child and that was quite traumatic. It took me years to be OK with my body. It took me years to be OK with my physical beauty. Somehow I had associated it with being harassed. I had internalized the blame and took no efforts to look nice. In fact I deliberately dressed down. My teens were gone in wearing baggy jeans and dirty T's. Mainly because I thought if I looked beautiful, I would somehow attract the same kind of behaviour and harassment. Perks of being intelligent - The perks of being intelligent are plenty. I identify as an intellectual and can practically teach myself to do many things on my own. I studied law and have been teaching it for the past 4 years since I was 22 years of age. I speak 4 languages and learnt French in just under 2 years. I am a decent singer and can appreciate and process music in myriad languages spreading across varied genres. I taught myself body massage. I also have a degree in Yoga. I dance well and enjoy playing chess. I aced debate and moot court competitions in college and am regularly called as a judge now!I am a voracious reader and decent writer. I am quick at grasping things. And I usually process things well. I am also a gifted and trained speaker. I enjoy deep and intellectually stimulating conversations where there is exchange of ideas. I am good with intellectual work. I am liked for it too. I am great with advice. (Not so good at taking my own. But well!) Problem solving. I can easily process issues and break them down into pieces. Most people come to me in trouble and I feel happy to help them. Whether its legal advice or general. I have been able to help many people and to this day enjoy doing it.I see the deeper reasons. I see the meaning behind words that most often the speaker herself isn't able to express. I am also great at analyzing myself or others. Flip side - The flip side of intelligence is over analysis of things. I am a classic case of 'absent minded' prof! So, even when I do consider myself intelligent, I don't think I am very smart. I am also a scatter brain and I tend to get bored quickly if there is no intellectual stimulation. The biggest problem with this is when I have to do mundane tasks. I suck at it. Also, being intelligent becomes quite lonely. I have very little patience for banal chit chat and most often in a huge group, I withdraw simply because my talk is deemed unnecessarily 'too intellectual for mortals'. There is also the problem that a lot of men feel intimidated by my intelligence. I never intend to but I somehow make them feel insecure. They are more likely to like me (or accept me) for my beauty than my intellect. (This has been my experience so far. I don't in any way wish to generalize. In fact I genuinely hope to meet more men interested in my intellect than I have). My kind of intelligence has the curse of being too mature for my age. I am just 26 years old but I swear I mentally can relate to people in their 40s. I am not very sure, but this is probably the reason why I am always attracted to older men! Boys my age are well, boys. How does it feel? I have learnt to be OK with my physical beauty. Thank it and be OK with men getting attracted because of that. As I grow in my life's journey, I accept and understand that physical attraction plays a major role in humans connecting and it is a good thing. I have also learnt to take compliments gracefully. Even though I did suffer some traumatic incidents, I'd rather have this privilege than not have it. Being intelligent feels great. I feel like I am in my element. I enjoy the pursuits of mind and I truly am grateful to be blessed with it. I have also been blessed to have innumerable talents and have decided to make the most of it. It feels great! This whole answer is written in relative context. I look up to far superior brains than mine. I hope, desire and persevere to reach there. Looks, I couldn't care much and am very happy with what I have. For more of my answers and posts, follow my blog - Mindful musings