 Gauri hits the nail right on its head. I am just adding to her answer. Babasaheb Purandare is a very learned historian from Maharashtra. And had the Maharashtra government taken it seriously, he would have got Bharat Ratna by now. He deserves it too. I always think, had he not been in India, had he been say in England, he would have become world famous. Such is his work! He is a brilliant historian and has brought history into every household in Maharashtra. Lucky for me, our families are close and I have visited his house plenty of times with my father. Believe me, the man walks, talks and lives history. I have witnessed it personally! People have accused him of all sorts of things. My point from the beginning has been, if you think a person's work is not credible, write critical analysis of the same. Peer- review it. Do your own research. Write books criticizing his. But his critics include organizations like Sambhaji Brigade. Well, what can you say about hooligans who are only capable of breaking and vandalizing institutes like 'Bhandarkar Institute' in Pune and nothing more than that?We possibly can't expect them to even understand what Babasaheb has written let alone peer-review it. I was happy today that the Bombay HC dismissed the ridiculous petition challenging the honour he is being given by the Maharashtra government. (Again, truth be told, this honour itself is thoroughly belated). What's more the HC has also asked the two Petitioners to pay costs for filing such a ridiculous petition. The award ceremony got over a few minutes back and watching the man speak so eloquently at 94 years of age, once again, was a pleasure! Any person who knows a little about the politics of Maharashtra knows that maligning Babasaheb is politically motivated. The politics is about castes. The problem being the fact that Babasaheb, sadly for them, is a Brahmin. A fact that should make no difference in front of his body of work. But like I said, what can you expect from puny, pathetic souls whose only reason of existence seems to be seeing castes in other people's surnames?Lastly (and understandably) that is all that they are capable of seeing and understanding. Reading his books requires a lot of effort and some amount of brain. P.S. Seeing my caste in my surname and writing me hate mails will prove my point.