 I have had quite a funny relationship with my beauty for long. Today, I embrace it. I thank it. And I also accept and allow myself to feel beautiful and be appreciated for my beauty. Before I actually go to my answer, let me make it clear that I wouldn't go to define beauty. Each may have her own definition and I have no right to go tell someone to define beauty according to my ideology. I may think beauty is internal while someone else may think it's about the skin tone. As long as no rights are violated based on that, I don't see a problem with definitions. Neither is superior or inferior to the other. End of the day they are all definitions and they are all beliefs. Every belief is true for the believer. For the purpose of this answer, I am referring to physical beauty when I use the word 'beauty'. I started out hating my physical beauty owing to some traumatic incidents in my childhood. Growing up, for long, I perceived a conflict between beauty and intelligence. Like you could only have one of the two. If someone complimented me for my beauty I would snap at them to say that I'd rather be known for my intellect. It took some time but I realized both were biological accidents. Beauty as well as brains. And considering one as superior to the other was stupid. What was truly my own were my efforts. Whether they were towards my mind or body didn't matter. Having been raised by parents who encouraged the pursuits of the mind much more than the body, I obviously ended up loving my mind more. Books were my food and intellectual pursuits my life's biggest pleasures. I didn't allow myself to feel beautiful because that didn't matter. It was only recently that I opened my mind to the possibility that being beautiful was a good thing. A gift! Today I try to take equal care of my mind and body. Though I will always be partial to my mind and its pursuits, I do not look down on the pursuits of the body. I feel that I kind of won a genetic lottery. I am beautiful as well as intelligent. I have many varied talents. And I should be thankful. I should make the most of it all and enjoy it. Lastly, I understood that I enjoy being appreciated for my beauty though I'd hate to be limited to it. When men compliment me for my physical beauty I easily find myself blushing (most often if I like them), or thank them. They saw something nice in me, and that's good. I don't judge them as superficial. I consider it very natural for all of us to appreciate human beauty. My beauty is a part of my personality. I embrace it. I have decided to enjoy it while it lasts. ( Applies equally to both beauty and mind) :)For more of my ideas and thoughts on life, psychology and philosophy, follow my blog - Mindful musings