 I had associated it with being harassed. I had internalized the blame and took no efforts to look nice. In fact I deliberately dressed down. My teens were gone in wearing baggy jeans and dirty T's. Mainly because I thought if I looked beautiful, I would somehow attract the same kind of behaviour and harassment. Perks of being intelligent - The perks of being intelligent are plenty. I identify as an intellectual and can practically teach myself to do many things on my own. I studied law and have been teaching it for the past 4 years since I was 22 years of age. I speak 4 languages and learnt French in just under 2 years. I am a decent singer and can appreciate and process music in myriad languages spreading across varied genres. I taught myself body massage. I also have a degree in Yoga. I dance well and enjoy playing chess. I aced debate and moot court competitions in college and am regularly called as a judge now!I am a voracious reader and decent writer. I am quick at grasping things. And I usually process things well. I am also a gifted and trained speaker. I enjoy deep and intellectually stimulating conversations where there is exchange of ideas. I am good with intellectual work. I am liked for it too. I am great with advice. (Not so good at taking my own. But well!) Problem solving. I can easily process issues and break them down into pieces. Most people come to me in trouble and I feel happy to help them. Whether its legal advice or general. I have been able to help many people and to this day enjoy doing it.I see the deeper reasons. I see the meaning behind words that most often the speaker herself isn't able to express. I am also great at analyzing myself or others. Flip side - The flip side of intelligence is over analysis of things. I am a classic case of 'absent minded' prof! So, even when I do consider myself intelligent, I don't think I am very smart. I am also a scatter brain and I tend to get bored quickly if there is no intellectual stimulation. The biggest problem with this is when I have to do mundane tasks. I suck at it. Also, being intelligent becomes quite lonely. I have very little patience for banal chit chat and most often in a huge group, I withdraw simply because my talk is deemed unnecessarily 'too intellectual for mortals'. There is also the problem that a lot of men feel intimidated by my intelligence. I never intend to but I somehow make them feel insecure. They are more likely to like me (or accept me) for my beauty than my intellect. (This has been my experience so far. I don't in any way wish to generalize. In fact I genuinely hope to meet more men interested in my intellect than I have). My kind of intelligence has the curse of being too mature for my age. I am just 26 years old but I swear I mentally can relate to people in their 40s. I am not very sure, but this is probably the reason why I am always attracted to older men! Boys my age are well, boys. How does it feel? I have learnt to be OK with my physical beauty. Thank it and be OK with men getting attracted because of that. As I grow in my life's journey, I accept and understand that physical attraction plays a major role in humans connecting and it is a good thing. I have also learnt to take compliments gracefully. Even though I did suffer some traumatic incidents, I'd rather have this privilege than not have it. Being intelligent feels great. I feel like I am in my element. I enjoy the pursuits of mind and I truly am grateful to be blessed with it. I have also been blessed to have innumerable talents and have decided to make the most of it. It feels great! This whole answer is written in relative context. I look up to far superior brains than mine. I hope, desire and persevere to reach there. Looks, I couldn't care much and am very happy with what I have. For more of my answers and posts, follow my blog - Mindful musings