 Whistleblower Protection Act is a toothless legislation. The law was passed following a lot of activism. The Law Commission of India in 2001 had drafted a Bill on this issue . In 2004, in response to a petition filed after the infamous murder of Satyendra Dubey, the Supreme Court directed that machinery be put in place for acting on complaints from whistleblowers till a law is enacted. The government notified a resolution in 2004 that gave the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) the power to act on complaints from whistleblowers. Till the enactment of the law, the CVC was receiving and acting upon complaints. The law received President's sanction in May 2014. Following is why I say it is a toothless legislation - 1.  No definition of 'Victimization' - The law doesnt define 'victimization'. In once instance, it indirectly limits it to victimised by initiation of any proceedings or otherwise. {Refer Section 11(1)}The definition of 'victimization' ought to be very wide.2. Limited definition of 'Disclosure' - {Refer section 3 (d)}The Act defines disclosure thus "disclosure" means a complaint relating to,(i) an attempt to commit or commission of an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988; (ii) wilful misuse of power or wilful misuse of discretion by virtue of which demonstrable loss is caused to the Government or demonstrable wrongful gain accrues to the public servant or to any third party; (iii) attempt to commit or commission of a criminal offence by a public servant, made in writing or by electronic mail or electronic mail message, against the public servant and includes public interest disclosure referred to in sub-section (2) of section 4. This definition is quite restrictive in nature. The definition of disclosure ought to be very expansive in nature and not limited to misuse of power or corruption. 3. Disclosure of the identity of the whistleblower / No provision for anonymous whistleblowing - (Refer Section 4)The law mandates the identity of the whistleblower be disclosed in the disclosure without which no action shall be taken by the competent Authority. The competent authority then shall conceal the identity of the whistleblower. The Competent Authority may, with the prior written consent of the complainant, reveal the identity of the complainant to such office or organization where it becomes necessary to do so. If the complainant does not agree to his name being revealed, in that case, the complainant shall provide all documentary evidence in support of is complaint to the Competent Authority. 4. Powers of Competent Authority are limited to making recommendations - (Refer section 7)After receipt of the report or comments relating to the complaint, if the Competent Authority is of the opinion that such comments or report reveals either wilful misuse of power or wilful misuse of discretion or substantiates allegations of corruption, it shall recommend to the public authority to take appropriate corrective measures such as initiating proceedings against the concerned public servant or other administrative and corrective steps. However, in case the public authority does not agree with the recommendation of the Competent Authority, it shall record the reasons for such disagreement.The powers are thus limited to making recommendations. It has no other powers to impose penalty. 5. No penalties on officials who victimize whistleblowers.There are penalties imposed only on officials who negligently or mala fidely reveal the identity of the whistleblower. 6. Courts not having jurisdiction to take a suo-moto action / or to take cognizance- (Refer Section 21 & 22)Lastly, no court has the jurisdiction to in respect of any matter which the Competent Authority is empowered by or under this Act to determine and no injunction can be granted by any court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act. No court can take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act or the rules or regulations made thereunder, save on a complaint made by the Competent Authority or any officer or person authorised by it. Read the full text of the law here - Page on persmin.gov.in India has witnessed the brutal murders of bravehearts who stood against corruption and paid the price with their lives. Satyendra Dubey and Manjunath Shanmugam are 2 such bravehearts in whose memory I write this post. The passing of a stringent law may not end corruption, but it will certainly bring the light of justice for countless such lives who are gone. It will also act as a deterrent.For more on Indian laws, follow my blog - Blawgniti