 In India - Fatwas are not necessarily death threats. The ones that become famous of course are about death threats. But there are lots of other harmless ones. Ridiculous though most of them nevertheless are. Fatwas are where religious opinion is asked and the religious scholar responds. There are some Fatwas which are issued suo moto too. As far as the legality of such fatwas is concerned, they are the same as the rubbish that goes on in Nirmal Baba's sabha. Not legally enforceable but you cannot do anything if one fool asks the other what should be the length of his beard according to Islam and decides to follow the Fatwa, or believes that it is sanctioned by his god. Legally, they are not valid. The Supreme Court in the landmark judgment of Vishwa Lochan Madan V. Union of India (1) , dealt with the issue of legality of Fatwas in India. This issue was raised after the harrowing tale of Imrana, a woman from Uttar Pradesh who was raped by her father-in-law. The question arose about her marital status and those of her children born in the wedlock with rapists son. The Fatwa of Dar-ul-Uloom in this connection reads as follows:If one raped his sons wife and it is proved through witnesses, or the rapist himself confesses it, Haram Musaharat will be proved. It means that the wife of the son will become unlawful forever to him i.e. the son. The woman with whom father has copulated legally or had sexual intercourse illegally in both ways, the son cant keep physical relationship with her. The Holy Quran says: Marry not the woman whom your father copulated The Fatwa dissolved the marriage and passed a decree for perpetual injunction restraining the husband and wife living together, though none of them ever approached the Darul Uloom. There are endless stupid questions asked and answered daily. Here, check out - What should be the length of a Muslim person's beard?...What you be the height of his pajama? Is it Ok if it extends the ankle?... During the fasting, is applying hair oil allowed as the scalp ends up soaking some?... Can women wear jeans? Can they wear a 'bindi'?Can a woman wax her legs and underarms?...Is artificial insemination allowed?... (Like this was knows back then!)A brilliant example where the seeker asked a question about aborting (as advised by the doctor in the interest of the woman and child) in 8-9th week, where the 'scholar' misconceived that as 8th month in pregnancy. I hope as hell the reader realized this and heeded the doctor. I want to know that my real uncle (Chacha) has expired so that my aunty is now in iddah so I want to know that who can talk with her or meet with her and can she walk on the roof?  Now days in the market too many hair removable blade (RAZOR) available. Is it allow in Islam women can use to remove hair (pubic or else) or only hair removal cream is allow? please give answer in the light of Quran & Hadith Answer - A woman also can shave her pubic hair from razor; but since softness of the pubic area is desirable in women therefore it is better for them to use hair remover creams.I have quoted everything from the website of Darul-Ifta. (2) The biggest and most prestigious school to whom people write for resolving of their religious queries is 'Darul Uloom Deoband' in Uttar Pradesh. Darul Ifta is one of its departments. There are plethora of Fatwas issued by them and the content of most of them would make any rational person both laugh and after a point maybe cry at the idiocy involved. Please note that every question / example I have quoted here is asked and referred to on the website. There is an excellent book by Aroun Shourie called 'The world of Fatwas' where he has quoted all of these in their hard copies with indices and volume numbers. Give it a read, it is excellent. I always had this question as to who follows this and asks. I mean sure, a small percentage of adherents in all faiths were bound to be stupid. And hence, I had always ignored the issue. Until of course I read the stats. Until of course I realized that no Muslim is willing to challenge the legality of this hogwash. Personally, I have a huge problem with the fact that fatwas are considered as binding by many blind adherents of the faith. People from around the globe write to these enlightened scholars who then spend man-hours discussing clothes and beard. What's more, the most outrageous thing is that these religious nuts who start their idiocy as 'arbiters' and 'counselors' often end up starting a parallel judicial system which if their population increases, will pose a direct threat to a justice system which is based on rule of law. Many Muslim countries already have this problem. Countries like Pakistan and Afghanistan have Religious courts (presided over by the Taliban of course) dispensing justice posing a threat to their judicial system. Muslim in many European countries also insist on having these parallel judicial system which threatens sane laws. (3) Muslim Arbitral tribunals are now getting set up in most European countries. In most countries they are not allowed but the struggle continues. If they are allowed, their operations are very strictly limited like the UK. In India, a scam was unearthed where it was found that the scholars can be bought and a fatwa of your choice can be secured. No surprises there. (4) The Supreme Court of India in Vishwa Lochan Madan's case (1), used the following words - As observed earlier, the Fatwa has no legal status in our Constitutional scheme.Notwithstanding that it is an admitted position that Fatwas have been issued and are being issued. All India Muslim Personal Law Board feels the necessity of establishment of a network of judicial system throughout the country and Muslims should be made aware that they should get their disputes decided by the Quazis. According to the All India Muslim Personal Law Board this establishment may not have the police powers but shall have the book of Allah in hand and sunnat of the Rasool and all decisions should be according to the Book and the Sunnat. This will bring the Muslims to the Muslim Courts. They will get justiceHowever, as the Fatwa gets strength from the religion; it causes serious psychological impact on the person intending not to abide by that. Having regard to the fact that a Fatwa has the potential of causing immense devastation, we feel impelled to add a word of caution. We would like to advise the Dar-ul-Qaza or for that matter anybody not to give any response or issue Fatwa concerning an individual, unless asked for by the person involved or the person having direct interest in the matter. It shall be in violation of basic human rights. It cannot be used to punish innocent. No religion including Islam punishes the innocent. Religion cannot be allowed to be merciless to the victim. Faith cannot be used as dehumanising force.Lastly, nobody in a democracy can prevent people from seeking answers to such questions or for giving them. People can follow what they like. They can't impose the same on others. So, per se, fatwas are not illegal. But they are not enforceable either. References - (1) Page on judis.nic.in(2) http://www.Page on darulifta-deoband.org/(3) Parallel Justice: Islamic 'Arbitrators' Shadow German Law - SPIEGEL ONLINE, Whose law counts most? , Muslim arbitration in Germany | Germany | DW.COM | 02.02.2012(4) Clerics issue fatwas for cash - The Times of India, Breaking News, Analysis, Politics, Blogs, News Photos, Video, Tech Reviews - TIME.comFor more about Indian laws, socio-legal or political questions and answers, follow my blog - Blawgniti