 I agree with Harshal. The answer to this question is, you can't. I have always felt music was born when man desired to express something which couldn't be expressed in words. Sound has a deep impact on humans. We tend to be naturally musical. Language and music are deeply connected too. There has always been a debate as to whether the two developed together or independently. Rousseau (a writer as well as a musician) opined that both music and language emerged together, as a singsong speech. They possible diverged later.Steven Pinker, in 'The language instinct, says - What benefit could there be to diverting time and energy to making plinking noises? . . . As far as biological cause and effect are concerned, music is useless....It could vanish from our species and the rest of our lifestyle would be virtually unchanged.Regardless of whether or not it serves a biological or evolutionary purpose, music has been there for centuries and will never cease to exist. There is something profoundly emotional about music. I feel it touches those parts of our subconscious that are not accessible otherwise. The stimulation clearly is very pleasurable. The inexpressible depth of music, Schopenhauer writes, so easy to understand and yet so inexplicable, is due to the fact that it reproduces all the emotions of our innermost being, but entirely without reality and remote from its pain.... Music expresses only the quintessence of life and of its events, never these themselves.I agree with him. Music is subtle. Words as media aren't as subtle. They have meaning. They have a form. Word 'x' can only have one meaning. It's fixed. Music goes beyond. It has no meaning. Notes have impressions. They are different for different people. They have no definitions. Personally, I am not as touched by words as I am by music. Music has the power to make me feel euphoric or bring me to tears. Anything. We listen to music with our muscles, says Nietzsche. We not only listen through our ears, but our whole body, unknowing to us, listens to music. Each cell participates. Not just that, there is research suggesting that the thinking of music 'in the mind' tends to have the same impact on the brain as music itself. (I have a theory that this must be identical about sex too. That thinking of it, will have just as powerful an impact on the brain as the act itself. But I haven't read of such research on sex)There is also the theories and research about 'musical memories'. Tunes that are etched on our minds. Poems and songs we tend to remember only if we sing them in their tunes. Most fascinating of course is the use of music for therapeutic purposes. There has been extensive