 I agree with Harshal. The answer to this question is, you can't. I have always felt music was born when man desired to express something which couldn't be expressed in words. Sound has a deep impact on humans. We tend to be naturally musical. Language and music are deeply connected too. There has always been a debate as to whether the two developed together or independently. Rousseau (a writer as well as a musician) opined that both music and language emerged together, as a singsong speech. They possible diverged later.Steven Pinker, in 'The language instinct, says - What benefit could there be to diverting time and energy to making plinking noises? . . . As far as biological cause and effect are concerned, music is useless....It could vanish from our species and the rest of our lifestyle would be virtually unchanged.Regardless of whether or not it serves a biological or evolutionary purpose, music has been there for centuries and will never cease to exist. There is something profoundly emotional about music. I feel it touches those parts of our subconscious that are not accessible otherwise. The stimulation clearly is very pleasurable. The inexpressible depth of music, Schopenhauer writes, so easy to understand and yet so inexplicable, is due to the fact that it reproduces all the emotions of our innermost being, but entirely without reality and remote from its pain.... Music expresses only the quintessence of life and of its events, never these themselves.I agree with him. Music is subtle. Words as media aren't as subtle. They have meaning. They have a form. Word 'x' can only have one meaning. It's fixed. Music goes beyond. It has no meaning. Notes have impressions. They are different for different people. They have no definitions. Personally, I am not as touched by words as I am by music. Music has the power to make me feel euphoric or bring me to tears. Anything. We listen to music with our muscles, says Nietzsche. We not only listen through our ears, but our whole body, unknowing to us, listens to music. Each cell participates. Not just that, there is research suggesting that the thinking of music 'in the mind' tends to have the same impact on the brain as music itself. (I have a theory that this must be identical about sex too. That thinking of it, will have just as powerful an impact on the brain as the act itself. But I haven't read of such research on sex)There is also the theories and research about 'musical memories'. Tunes that are etched on our minds. Poems and songs we tend to remember only if we sing them in their tunes. Most fascinating of course is the use of music for therapeutic purposes. There has been extensive research throughout the world on this. There is good amount of literature in India stating the effect of various raagas in curing illnesses. Oliver Sacks is known to have used music a lot in healing neurological conditions in many of his patients. His work is well documented. I have personally been experimenting with music for long. I have started maintaining a diary of it. I seem to have Chromesthesia, so I wish to get some insights from neurologists some day. I have also known (since the time I can remember) that music has a very strong hold / deep impact on me. Sound itself has that effect. Just when I thought I was recovering, I went into a major depressive episode after listening to death metal rock music for a couple of days. Let me be clear, that I happened to like it. Or I wouldn't have listened to it. Despite that, there was a clear relapse. So much so that I found it hard to get out of bed for 3 straight days. (This happened 2 months back). I am not entirely sure if there is any connection between the two but I am too scared to try immediately now! But I do hope to go back to trying it again to see the impact of death metal on me some day. Similar has been my journey with Indian classical music. I have been using it on myself for therapeutic purpose for quite some time now. I have also made it a point to not read about the purpose before hand. This helps me in making sure that my mind is not prejudiced by my reading of therapeutic advantages of Indian classical music. If it helps it helps, if it doesn't it doesn't. I wouldn't want a placebo! So far, Raag Tilak Kamod, Bageshree, and Hamsadhwani have really helped in lifting my spirits. Maalkauns, Behag and Komal Rishabh Asavari are very touching and I find myself moved to tears quite often by them. (These tears are happily emotional!). Ahir Bhairav is meditative. So is Bhairav and Todi. I am listening and maintaining a diary of the effect of music on me! I would some day love to expand this research on others to see if the results match. Additionally, I am fascinated by the sound of language. I enjoy listening to any foreign tongue. It is highly pleasurable. I also listen to music without paying heed to the language. My brain is so trained to ignore the words while listening to music that I have to take efforts to appreciate the lyrics! As a result, I can sing in about 15-16 languages without understanding the words at all. My musical memory seems to be superb! So no, there is no way around it. Man is a musical creature too. Just as he is a linguistic and sexual creature. You cannot have alternatives to that. For more of these, follow my blog - Mindful musings.