 Thank you so much for asking me to answer. It was a great experience! Firstly, I have to say that the organizers as well as the students were very warm and welcoming. It felt great to be connected to so many people with common interests and an open and curious mind. Nagpur is a quiet city in the North of Maharashtra. I had visited it once before for a moot court competition in college a few years back. I was happy to be back there. The stay arrangement was excellent and so were the hosts. :) The whole experience of the meetup was superb! Chaitanya was a great anchor. Although he was a tad bit nervous at the beginning he had no reason to be so! Barsha, other organizers and volunteers were extremely enthusiastic and warm. To be honest, I had no idea Quora was so popular! Or that so many people knew me! I was surprised to see more than 500 (I am told the number was a whopping 550+) students in the audience!! I was also happy to answer their interesting questions! Ranging from law, to psychology, to politics, to sociology, to current affairs, start-ups, Yoga, Game of thrones, women in India, we discussed plethora of issues! There were puns, jokes, interesting insights and a lot of warmth and happiness shared. I was also happy again to connect to Niharika and Ankush whom I had met before in the IIT Bombay event. Meeting Aishwarya was amazing. I had been reading some of her answers and knew about her through Quora before. True to her image, Niharika is intelligent, interactive, energetic and easy to talk to. Ankush is witty, funny and a very nice person. The three of us girls had a nice time teasing him. :) Aishwarya, is unlike her image. Totally. An extremely funny person, she quickly becomes the life of the group! Given that we were staying in the same hotel, we chatted well past midnight! It was great talking to her and like I told her, I never felt like we were conversing for the first time! This meetup will forever be cherished! Warm and wonderful memories... :) Thank you again, AXIS team for inviting me. Here is a click with the awesome audience and organizers of the meet. The next day I was asked to judge Model United Nations conference organized by VNIT. The resolution was regarding the Global Refugee crisis. It was an amazing experience to judge school students who had participated! I was a tad bit worried because I am used to judging (and grilling) college students (mainly law) in competitions. I am also known as quite a scary judge. (This apparently is the reason why I am invited I am told! LOL) But I was taken aback by how prepared and well versed the school students were. All in all, an awesome experience I will always cherish. :)