 Infidelity can either become an opportunity to strengthen your relationship or gracefully move away from one another. There are two parts here. One is your part, the other is his. You can do yours in making him trust you. But he won't trust you fully unless he does his part too. An affair is not the problem. It can be a symptom of the problem. And I say 'it can be'. So, if you both feel (he should feel it in equal measure. I write this answer presuming he feels it in equal measure) that you should be taking this opportunity to strengthen your bond, the following things can be done to get back trust and better your relationship. Remember a lot of relationships merely survive an affair. Do you really want just survival? Or do you want a beautiful relationship much better than what existed before the affair? Aim for the latter. For you (The person who had the affair) - 1. You need to stop the affair. First step. Tell your partner it's over. In that process, if you have to let go off some of your freedom, do it. 2. Apologize for hurting him. Now there are two parts to this apology and you therefore need to inquire into yourself. A lot of people feel apologetic for hurting their spouse but don't necessarily feel apologetic for the affair itself. There is a difference. Key difference. Introspect and find out what do you feel apologetic about. Don't judge yourself, just introspect. Don't tell yourself what you "should" be feeling. Just find out what you actually feel. If you do not regret the affair, your relationship with your husband is far worse than you think. If this is truly the situation, then you need to check why do you wish to live with him. Is it really love? Or is it other things which your mind disguises as love? Introspect well.Most people who don't regret the affair itself either quit from the first relationship (as they probably should), or merely survive without realizing why. So, introspect. If you truly regret the affair, apologize. No buts, no justifications, plain and simple sorry. Assure him it would never happen again. 3. Sex - Well, given that he is a man, sexual affair for him is the most painful. If you were to have an emotional one, he wouldn't bat an eye! Cheating according to me happens in many forms. There is the cheating by contempt, cheating by neglect, cheating by emotional affairs, and cheating by indifference. Sexual cheating hits worst. More so for men and I believe the reasons for this are very very interesting but since they are not the topic of this answer, I will not go there. Know and understand that sexual cheating will break him and fixing it is a task. Immediately in the aftermath of an affair, there is an upsurge of sexual activity between the couple. This is mainly to ward off the effect of the affair. You real work would begin months later. To assure him. To make him feel wanted. An affair tells him that he is rejected. You have to make him believe he isn't and would never be. He is needed, wanted. Remember, feeling wanted, is very different from feeling loved. And if you cheated out of this reason, you will very well see the difference. Lastly, forgive yourself. For Him (the person whose spouse had an affair) - 1. Victim of an affair need not necessarily be the victim of the marriage - Your first job is to not find out the details. I know this is hard, but the details are only going to hurt you more. So, control that temptation. Questions like "Was he better than me?, How did you do it? Which position?