 Thank you for asking me to answer this question Vishwathika. I also have to mention two other people who requested me to answer this. Thank you. As agreed, I am not tagging you! I do not consider myself highly anything. But well yes, I do think I am above average. I was also battling whether I should really be answering this but then decided to take a stab anyway. I decided because I realized that we are not encouraged to embrace our physical beauty (At least in my case). Somehow we are taught to be ashamed of it. There is a lot of social pressure. Well, I am breaking it and answering this question! In my country, I am considered attractive for two reasons - Firstly because I have fair skin (by Indian standards of course). Sadly, that is the definition of beauty for most Indians. Secondly, because I have symmetrical features. That seems to be something most people in the world term attractive and I too find myself attracted to men with symmetrical features. Other than that, there isn't anything much. With intellect, I have been taking efforts for long. Since childhood. Books have been my best friends and I have had intellectual pursuits all my life. Although I was never aced exams, I was excellent with knowledge. In college and later, people have been coming up to me with questions and I have had a very satisfying journey as a teacher of law. There are perks as well as flip sides. Perks of being attractive - People notice you. People assist you. Very rarely people forget me. More so if they speak with me. People (men) have readily helped me out when I have had any issue. That is probably a perk of being a young girl too. I can't be sure. But I have experienced men readily helping me out when I was in distress than say a young boy. The world is quite unfair in the sense that it is simply nicer to good looking people. I have been very conscious of never taking undue advantage of this fact. Other than that, I don't see anything much. Flip side of being attractive -Since she is good looking, obviously she won't have brain - Many times, the biggest misconception a lot of people have when they first meet me is this. I encountered that sentiment the most when I was practicing in courts. For some reason, people presumed I wouldn't be intelligent and didn't shy away from showing surprise when I argued and kicked their ass in court! One incident is very distinct in my mind. I was arguing against a very senior advocate. It was a simple argument of maintenance for my client. Since it was a very small argument, I was asked to argue. This was just 2 years back. I looked tiny in front of the senior advocate. He looked complacent ( as many senior advocates do!). After I finished my argument the judge told me 'well argued'. (She also later passed an order in my favour!) As I left and came out of the court room, the advocate followed. He told me he never expected me to argue so well. I politely just asked him why! He was a tad bit uncomfortable at my question and quickly mumbled that generally girls as young as I, didn't. I just smiled. He told me he would be happy to buy me a cup of tea since I argued so well. You never refuse a senior advocate. So, I agreed. This is just one of those countless encounters I have had where people naturally presumed that I wouldn't be intelligent. There is also the general belief that beautiful people get away with sloppy work. Because of this, I have encountered people presuming that just because I looked nice, I would be sloppy with my work. Well, I have been happy to prove them wrong. HarassmentI have been molested and have encountered many incidents where I was groped at and harassed. This isn't uncommon. Because I was a fair and beautiful child, I was molested even as a child and that was quite traumatic. It took me years to be OK with my body. It took me years to be OK with my physical beauty. Somehow