 as to who follows this and asks. I mean sure, a small percentage of adherents in all faiths were bound to be stupid. And hence, I had always ignored the issue. Until of course I read the stats. Until of course I realized that no Muslim is willing to challenge the legality of this hogwash. Personally, I have a huge problem with the fact that fatwas are considered as binding by many blind adherents of the faith. People from around the globe write to these enlightened scholars who then spend man-hours discussing clothes and beard. What's more, the most outrageous thing is that these religious nuts who start their idiocy as 'arbiters' and 'counselors' often end up starting a parallel judicial system which if their population increases, will pose a direct threat to a justice system which is based on rule of law. Many Muslim countries already have this problem. Countries like Pakistan and Afghanistan have Religious courts (presided over by the Taliban of course) dispensing justice posing a threat to their judicial system. Muslim in many European countries also insist on having these parallel judicial system which threatens sane laws. (3) Muslim Arbitral tribunals are now getting set up in most European countries. In most countries they are not allowed but the struggle continues. If they are allowed, their operations are very strictly limited like the UK. In India, a scam was unearthed where it was found that the scholars can be bought and a fatwa of your choice can be secured. No surprises there. (4) The Supreme Court of India in Vishwa Lochan Madan's case (1), used the following words - As observed earlier, the Fatwa has no legal status in our Constitutional scheme.Notwithstanding that it is an admitted position that Fatwas have been issued and are being issued. All India Muslim Personal Law Board feels the necessity of establishment of a network of judicial system throughout the country and Muslims should be made aware that they should get their disputes decided by the Quazis. According to the All India Muslim Personal Law Board this establishment may not have the police powers but shall have the book of Allah in hand and sunnat of the Rasool and all decisions should be according to the Book and the Sunnat. This will bring the Muslims to the Muslim Courts. They will get justiceHowever, as the Fatwa gets strength from the religion; it causes serious psychological impact on the person intending not to abide by that. Having regard to the fact that a Fatwa has the potential of causing immense devastation, we feel impelled to add a word of caution. We would like to advise the Dar-ul-Qaza or for that matter anybody not to give any response or issue Fatwa concerning an individual, unless asked for by the person involved or the person having direct interest in the matter. It shall be in violation of basic human rights. It cannot be used to punish innocent. No religion including Islam punishes the innocent. Religion cannot be allowed to be merciless to the victim. Faith cannot be used as dehumanising force.Lastly, nobody in a democracy can prevent people from seeking answers to such questions or for giving them. People can follow what they like. They can't impose the same on others. So, per se, fatwas are not illegal. But they are not enforceable either. References - (1) Page on judis.nic.in(2) http://www.Page on darulifta-deoband.org/(3) Parallel Justice: Islamic 'Arbitrators' Shadow German Law - SPIEGEL ONLINE, Whose law counts most? , Muslim arbitration in Germany | Germany | DW.COM | 02.02.2012(4) Clerics issue fatwas for cash - The Times of India, Breaking News, Analysis, Politics, Blogs, News Photos, Video, Tech Reviews - TIME.comFor more about Indian laws, socio-legal or political questions and answers, follow my blog - Blawgniti