 The sentence is grammatical. Generally, "rarely" can be used with both resultative and irresultative aspect, but let's check it in different situations. (The word order of the clause will vary in my examples but it is not relevant here.)The sentence in the question has the object karhua in partitive, which indicates irresultative aspect. It would work just fine in context such as nin usein mkkini lhell liikuskelleen karhun, ammuin karhua harvoinwhich means 'I often saw the bear going nearby my cottage, I rarely shot at the bear'. In this case, the speaker means that in some occasions, when the bear came to his yard, he shot at the bear; that is, the bear was shot a few times but it is still alive, or, it is dead now but it was shot a few times before and it survived those times. Another context could be: metsstin useita elimi mutta harvoin ammuin karhua, meaning 'I hunted several animals but I rarely shot a bear'. To be more specific, the aspect here is clearly imperfective, but I'm not sure if it includes the irresultative aspect as well. The speaker does not explicitly say if he has killed a bear. It is just the negative "feeling" of the clause that supports the partitive object.It is possible to change the object into accusative (some call it genitive-accusative, some only genitive, but I prefer the traditional accusative for clarity), which makes it the total object and the aspect thus resultative. The context would be for example: kvin usein metsstmss mutta karhun ammuin harvoin, meaning 'I often went hunting but I rarely shot a bear. The English translation can't use 'the bear', because the shooting is resultative, so the bear must be different at each time. If we change the object into plural, the situation changes. Ammuin karhuja harvoin has plural partitive in the object and is thus imperfective in aspect, and means 'I shot (some) bears'. Plural partitive serves here as an indefinite amount, so the resultative vs. irresultative distinction is not seen. Changing the object into plural nominative, which serves as the definite amount as well as perfective aspect, however, makes it resultative. Ammuin karhut means 'I shot the bears', saying that the bears are dead now. Including the word 'rarely' here makes it really weird: ammuin karhut harvoin, meaning 'I rarely shot all the bears' and thus killed them, would work in a context, where there is always a certain group of bears, which the speaker occasionally kills as a whole group.Plural partitive objects is the only possibility in the perfect tense: olen ampunut karhuja harvoin, meaning 'I have shot bears rarely'. Using the total object here does not work. However, they both work in singular: olen ampunut karhua harvoin, meaning 'I have rarely shot a bear', where the explanation is the same as in my second example; the aspect is imperfective, mainly because of the negative "feeling" of the clause, and the specific meaning is something like 'I have some rare experiences of shooting or attempting to shoot a bear', so I would say that the irresultativeness is not clear here. This clause is basically the same as the corresponding preterite clause in my second example. The resultative olen ampunut karhun harvoin means that the speaker has some rare experiences of shooting and killing a bear.To the end I'll present one kind of weird example, which I think suits here well. Irresultative verbs can be made resultative with some adverbials. For example: rakastan karhua ('I love the bear', irresultative by nature) vs. rakastan karhun kuoliaaksi ('I love the bear to death', resultative). It would be possible to say harvoin rakastin karhun kuoliaaksi, meaning 'I rarely loved a bear to death', where the speaker has had several bears as pets and seemingly he has sometimes loved them to death but not always.