 Japanese has two kinds of particles: case markers and postpositions. Case markers indicate nominative, accusative and topic, and postpositions tell something about the state of the word: location, direction, instrument, time etc. Case markers tell what the grammatical relation of the word is. Wa marks the topic of the sentence. Ga represents nominative. O marks accusative, which means that the word is the direct object of the verb.Judith Meyer provided an example of the usage of case markers in a sentence, but her linguistic interpretation is not accurate:Anata wa nego ga suki desu.'You like cats''You' is the theme: wa indicates that we are going to say something about you. The sentence tells about liking, and English expresses that with a verb and its object. Japanese, however, uses an adjective there: suki ('favourable'). Because of that, the sentence doesn't have an object. It has a subject that tells what is favourable. This word is marked with nominative (if there is no need to use it as a topic). The last word of the sentence is often called a copula verb ('to be') but it is more like a grammatical element that marks the predicative. That's why I marked it with bold letters. We could even call it a case marker particle. Though, it differs from other particles in having a conjugation.Transitive verbs have direct objects that get the accusative marking:Watashi wa nihongo o hanasu.orWatashi ga nihongo o hanasu.'I speak Japanese''I' is marked as the theme in the first sentence and as nominative in the second sentence, and 'Japanese' as the object with the case marker particles.The other kind of particles, postpositions, show what "happens" to the word:Sanji ni densha de Asahikawa kara Kyto e iku.'At three o'clock, I will go by train from Asahikawa to Kyoto'The difference between the two kinds of particles in Japanese becomes visible in combinations. Topic marker can be added after a postposition:Nihon ni onsen ga aru.Nihon ni wa onsen ga aru.The first sentence just tells that 'there are hot springs in Japan'. The second sentence has marked the locative as the topic, making the meaning 'it is Japan where there are hot springs'. So, these are particles. In my answer, I have focused mostly on their morphological side. The usage of them, especially the case markers is a more complicated thing.