 Aikido teaches certain aspects of martial arts in a more understandable way than judo. The original meaning of shiai in judo was to test one's technique. Nowadays, competitive judo has unfortunately become a strength sport. Aikido helps to see many profound things that have been forgotten in judo, especially among competitive judokas. Taisabaki is an essential part of any martial art. It is one of the most important things if you want to throw somebody. While doing taisabaki, you must keep your hands in front of you all the time without changing the position between your hands and body. If you follow this, throws will be effortless. However, this is not always easily seen in judo because the distance between tori and uke is small. In aikido, the distance is bigger, and it is easier to perceive what a proper taisabaki looks like. Aikido is also an art of ukemi. Judokas are not used to do multifaceted ukemis. They see ukemi just as an inevitable bad thing, which must be done in order to get down safely (and competitors actually don't do ukemi, which is dangerous). Aikido gives diversity to your ukemi and helps you perform as an uke more comfortably. At least it did it to me.Aikido also gives good insight into using the directions and trajectories, which too often are replaced with raw power. One of my judo senseis, who was an olympic judoka earlier, said that first he was a sportsman who needed to train hard in order to be successful. He found judo really difficult and himself very bad at it. Then he got acquainted with other martial arts such as aikido and began thinking teachings himself. He stopped training sport. He did just judo: he practiced kata, taisabaki and stance (like jigohontai). After that, he found judo easy, comfortable, safe, and he also became more successful in competitions than before. Aikido is a good addition to a judoka in the case that the judoka is not a sportsman but a budoka. Competitive judokas are sportsmen and often lack the time or willing to go deep into budo. Those judokas who have time and want to think things profoundly, I recommend to broaden your sight into other budo arts, like aikido.