 This is probably a cultural thing. The only place, where I've seen the claims of Native American being just immigrants, are Quora questions asked by (presumably) Americans. Even though my school history book told something about the assumed origin of Native Americans, it did not say they wouldn't have been indigenous. Interestingly, nations that gained independence from the Russian Empire, or lived near to it, have traditionally called themselves immigrants. Even though Finnish culture and nation were formed in Finland, there have always been questions of "where the Finnish people came", as if they had been a uniform, established Finnish nation somewhere that then just went to Finland. The oldest theory was that Finns were immigrants from Estonia. It is true that the Saami people (who are related to Finns at least linguistically) inhabited the region first and moved then to the North, but still, the ancestors of Finns came in a couple of thousands of years ago. In reality, ancient "Finns" also intermarried with Germanic tribes among others.Hungarians have even a more absurd tradition about their origins. Hungarians are said to have come to Hungary in 896 AD. I've heard that the national museum of Hungary has a painting where a man wearing a funny helmet points forward indicating "Look! There is Hungary!" It is true that the people who later formed the Hungarian nation came to the region of modern Hungary relatively late (which is proven for example by the absence of big dialectical differences), but of course they didn't arrive as a single group in a single year. There have also been attempts to prove Hungarians to be linguistic and genetic relatives of Huns, Sumerians and other great cultures, and not of "less noble" Uralic nations. On the other hand, in Japan it would be terrible to claim that the Japanese would be immigrants. New archeological findings suggest that the family of the emperor might have come from Korea, but officials won't grant permissions for extended research so that any inconvenient truths wouldn't come up. I think this depends on what kind of identity people need. Finns and Hungarians wondered who they were and what was their relationship to their neighbours, and nationalism can also use immigrant theories in order to make desired connections to ancient civilisations. Colonial powers wanted to legitimise their presence in their new homelands. And, nations who have always been independent and have a long culture, don't need to think about it at all.