 seen as an old language, which just does not have any rationale. Based on the case of Irish Gaelic, we could say that Italian is a very old language because it has been spoken there for ages. The reason people don't say that is that Latin is seen as a separate language: it is written in a different way as Italian, it is studied as an independent language, it has a lot of written texts that are not intelligible with Italian and it is still used as a language for example by the Roman Catholic Church. Because the ancient Britonic does not have that kind of position, Irish Gaelic is perceived as a mystic old language. The same can be said about Finnish, too. I presented that Finnish is quite a conservative language, and regarding those facts it can be called an "old language" (if we agree with the meaning of an "old language"). However, the same that I wrote about Latin concerns Finnish, too. "Finnish" spoken in 3000 years ago was different. It hadn't developed grade alternation yet, it hadn't probably acquired subordinate clauses or attribute agreement, which are Indo-European influence, and it had many phonemes modern Finns couldn't even easily produce. In addition, languages within one group can be conservative in some features and more advanced in some other features. Finnish is phonologically mostly more conservative than Estonian, but Estonian has not diphthongised its mid vowels (noor tmees) unlike Finnish (nuori tymies), and is thus more conservative in this feature. Different Finnish dialects differ in the degree of phonological conservatism so the general degree of the Finnish conservatism is varying. Knowing this, with which argument we could call Finnish an older language than Italian or Swedish or English? Why not call Italian an old language? It has been written a lot longer than Finnish, but its literal conventions have just been changed just like its phonology and grammar have changed. Latin was just Italian spoken in the antiquity. It was different from modern Italian just like Proto-Finnic was different from modern Finnish, but because Proto-Finnic wasn't written and Latin was, Italian is seen as a "young language". The same goes with Iris Gaelic: there are no classical literature written in Britonic. If there were, modern Irish would probably be seen as completely different as well as young.Languages change gradually. Some of them have radical and rapid changes, some of them have very moderate changes. Languages with lots of contacts usually change a lot. An old written form does not mean that the language hasn't changed a lot (compare with Chinese) as doesn't a long history in the same location either. A proto-language of newly written language was perhaps as different from the modern language as the written proto-language of another language was. The existing texts just give an impression of a totally distinct language which the non-existing texts do not. The oldness of a language is a very shady, varying and unscientific term. When we want to discuss the history of a language, we need more precise concepts.