 It is of course good to learn English at school, but it indeed is a problem that it is seen as the foreign language. Because English is seen and heard a lot in media (for example in Nordic countries, English on TV is not dubbed but subtitled) and people can manage their holiday trips abroad by using just English, they believe it is the only language that matters. That's why parents choose only English as the foreign language for their children at school, which leads to the situation where smaller schools have to stop offering other languages because of the decreased number of interested students. The dominance of English also leads to some kind of bias of how people see languages. If you ask for example Finnish people, both school children and adults, which is the easiest language and which is the hardest one, you'll get English for the first question and always something else for the latter one. People find English easy because of its constant presence. Because of that, people tend to think that the easiness of English is due to its grammar. I learned German for many years at school and many students complained how hard it was. When my teacher demonstrated some German verb form, a student exclaimed that "why everything needs to be conjugated?!", as if conjugating languages were more difficult than word order based languages. (I'm learning Chinese, too, so I can tell it doesn't mean that.) Even Swedish is seen more difficult than English even though it is grammatically simpler than English or German in many aspects. This prevents people from looking into other languages (though, I must say that my country has a lot of language-skilled people in other languages, too). Because everyone here seems to know English well and because TV and internet are full of English, people everywhere else must know English and therefore there is no need seen for other languages. This is the logic I think is really easy to see. Some politicians even want to make English the third official language of Finland.