 When people speak of "old languages", they usually mean two different things: how conservative the language is, and how long it has been written, or a combination of both. The article The 10 Oldest Languages Still Spoken In The World Today has been going around social media recently, and it focuses on the two points I mentioned in the first paragraph. Many times these kinds of articles are complete non-sense, published by journalists with no linguistic knowledge (many scientific reporters have a background in natural sciences, which is why they can't evaluate linguistics). However, this article starts with a very good paragraph about the language change, and the rest of the text should be read keeping that in mind.The question being about European languages, let's look at Finnish, Icelandic, Lithuanian and Irish Gaelic.Finnish is a conservative language within the Uralic family. It has plenty of words that have not change much after Proto-Uralic. For example, the Proto-Uralic word *pojka ('son') is poika in Finnish but fi in Hungarian, which is another Uralic language. If we look at Germanic loanwords, we can see that Finnish is conservative there, too, and thus claim  though a bit carefully  that it is more conservative than languages of another language family, at least phonologically. The Proto-Germanic word *kuningaz is kuningas in Finnish but kung/konung in Swedish, king in English and Knig in German. The Old Norse /au/ diphthong is still the original diphthong in Finnish, but it has changed in Scandinavian languages: Swedes say kpa ('to buy') (that has affrication , too) but Finns say kauppa ('shop, trade'). 'Saturday' is lauantai in Finnish but lrdag in Swedish and laugardagur [li-] in Icelandic, which has retained the spelling but changed the pronunciation. This leads us to Icelandic. Among the Germanic languages, it is really conservative. It has retained the grammatical cases, personal conjugation, the phonemes  and  and it has not merged masculine and feminine into uter unlike the most continental variaties, and it also has (artificial) lexical conservatism. Icelandic has not changed much during the time it has had written language, so it is what people like to call "old".Lithuanian is always referred to when speaking of historical comparative Indo-European research because it has retained many features that have vanished in other IE languages. Ferdinand de Saussure was very keen on the Lithuanian accentuation system because it would give us insight into the PIE accentuation system. The article considers Irish Gaelic an old language because it has been spoken in its current location for a long time. That is silly reasoning because many languages have been spoken a long time in their current locations. To my knowledge, Irish Gaelic has changed a lot during its history, even shifting from one typologic type to another. It doesn't have a long written history either. Because the Britonic language, which is the ancestor of the Insular Celtic languages, was spoken there before the Roman and Anglo-Saxon invasions, it is seen as an old language, which just does not have any rationale. Based on the case of Irish Gaelic, we could say that Italian is a very old language because it has been spoken there for ages. The reason people don't say that is that Latin is seen as a separate language: it is written in a different way as Italian, it is studied as an independent language, it has a lot of written texts that are not intelligible with Italian and it is still used as a language for example by the Roman Catholic Church. Because the ancient Britonic does not have that kind of position, Irish Gaelic is perceived as a mystic old language. The same can be said about Finnish, too. I presented that Finnish is quite a conservative language, and regarding those facts it can be called an "old language" (if we agree with the meaning of an "old language"). However, the same that I wrote about Latin concerns Finnish, too. "Finnish" spoken in 3000 years ago was different. It hadn't developed grade alternation yet, it hadn't probably acquired subordinate clauses or attribute agreement, which are Indo-European influence, and it had many phonemes modern Finns couldn't even easily produce. In addition, languages within one group can be conservative in some features and more advanced in some other features. Finnish is phonologically mostly more conservative than Estonian, but Estonian has not diphthongised its mid vowels (noor tmees) unlike Finnish (nuori tymies), and is thus more conservative in this feature. Different Finnish dialects differ in the degree of phonological conservatism so the general degree of the Finnish conservatism is varying. Knowing this, with which argument we could call Finnish an older language than Italian or Swedish or English? Why not call Italian an old language? It has been written a lot longer than Finnish, but its literal conventions have just been changed just like its phonology and grammar have changed. Latin was just Italian spoken in the antiquity. It was different from modern Italian just like Proto-Finnic was different from modern Finnish, but because Proto-Finnic wasn't written and Latin was, Italian is seen as a "young language". The same goes with Iris Gaelic: there are no classical literature written in Britonic. If there were, modern Irish would probably be seen as completely different as well as young.Languages change gradually. Some of them have radical and rapid changes, some of them have very moderate changes. Languages with lots of contacts usually change a lot. An old written form does not mean that the language hasn't changed a lot (compare with Chinese) as doesn't a long history in the same location either. A proto-language of newly written language was perhaps as different from the modern language as the written proto-language of another language was. The existing texts just give an impression of a totally distinct language which the non-existing texts do not. The oldness of a language is a very shady, varying and unscientific term. When we want to discuss the history of a language, we need more precise concepts.