 That's because every living language is as old. Every language has evolved from earlier proto-languages. Some languages have more innovations than others. Because of that, we call some languages more conservative than their living relatives. This conservatism can't be measured outside of the language family. There is no point comparing whether Finnish is more conservative than Icelandic because they belong to different families and therefore there is no reference point. We can say that Icelandic is much more conservative than other Scandinavian languages and that Finnish is more conservative than many Uralic languages but we can't compare those conservative features together. If we look at linguistic conservatism in a historical scale, we could say that some modern language can be recognised at a farther time than some other language, because it has retained more features of the proto-language than some other language but this does not mean that this language would be older. It has just changed less. People often refer to writing systems when they speak of "old languages". In reality, the age of the writing system tells only that the nation speaking the language invented the system at certain historical period. It doesn't mean that their language would be older than those that have been written for a shorter time. Writing doesn't prevent language from evolving either. Even though a language had been written thousands of years, it may have undergone many innovations and thus is less conservative than its relatives, which means that it may have been like a different language at the time it began to be written. This is why we cannot say that Tamil is the oldest language. It has been evolving just like other languages. It is not some fossil from the past. Every languages of these days were spoken in the past, too, but they were in different forms; they were proto-languages. There is no historical points where we could say that "now this Tamil was born" or "now Proto-Germanic has changed into Frisian" or "now Spaniards don't speak Vulgar Latin anymore but Spanish instead". Language evolution is gradual and constant. It works similarly in Tamil as well as in other languages. (I was recently asked to answer to a question about the oldest langauge in Europe. I have written more detailed examples about this topic there: Joonas Vakkilainen's answer to What is the oldest language in Europe?)