 The answer is no, but it is a practical no rather than an ideological no. Languages can for sure be devised but it is a wholly different story to make people speak them. Children acquire their native language from their parents and other people in their environment. Parents usually speak their native language or another strong language to their children. In the case of devised languages, there must be a starting point where people with a native language learn the new devised language and become proficient in it and then start to speak it to their little children, who aquire it as their first language. This can happen for some individuals of course  there are people who have spoken Esperanto to their children  but it is very unlikely to happen in a large scale.Then, we must see the distinction between language and writing. Orthogprahic reforms have been conducted succesfully. Turkish shifted from Arabic script to Latin letters, the Chinese Mainland simplified its characters, and Russians made some changes to their orthographic conventions. Orthography can indeed be used as a tool of separate linguistic identity. When Scots language is written, it is done by using modified English spelling to show the differing Scots sounds and pronunciations. Otherwise the text would just look like English with some Scottish lexicon and grammar.A more moderate way of divising a separate language is standardisation. When a country wants to differ from its close relatives, the norms of written language are made as different as possible from its neighbours. This was done in the former Yugoslavian countries that were said to have Serbo-Croatian as their language. A language called Serbo-Croatian is not spoken of anymore, and each country maintains their own languge. When written Ukrainian was formed, Polish loanwords were favoured at the expense of Ukrainian words that had Russian cognates. Language standardisation does not mean that people should change the way they speak. Standard varieties are just forms of public, official speaking and particularly writing. This method is used in the Nordic countries. Standard Finnish and Norwegian Nynorsk are collections of several dialects and made-up rules. They are nobody's native languages but they are the way newspapers are written. Can some of the above discribed alternatives take place in the USA? It would be extremely difficult, I suppose. The larger the population, the more difficult it is to make changes that need so big a unification.