 Because many languages express aspects as verbal categories, it may sometimes be difficult to see the difference between tense and aspect. However, tense is a verbal category, whereas aspect necessarily is not. Aspect marking is not compulsory in every language. Let's see some examples.Russian has compulsory aspect marking. It is carried out as verb forms. Russian is said to have three tenses: present, preterite (past) and future, and two aspects, imperfective and perfective. Imperfective means that the action is not completed, whereas perfective describes an action that is or will be completed. There is however overlapping it the tenses and aspects: the non-past perfective aspect inevitably refers to the future and is therefore called the future tense; therefore, it can't have the present tense. It is not an inflected future tense, though. Because of this and in order to show the meaning of aspects well, I'll call it present tense in the following explanations. To put it simply, imperfective present means that something is on progress and imperfective past indicates that something has been being done but not completed. Perfective present means that something will be done and perfective past expresses a completed action. Aspect is marked with prefixes or stem changes. The following phrases contain the verb to read in the first person and the noun book as the object.Imperfective present   Ya chitayu kniguThis can mean 'I read a book generally' or 'I'm reading a book'. The action of reading is on progress. Imperfective past  Ya chital kniguThe meaning is 'I read a book' but the action did not come to its end. Perfective present  Ya prochitayu knigu'I will read a book'. Because the tense is present and aspect perfective, the verb refers to the future. (This is considered the future tense in Russian grammar but not in linguistic typology.)Perfective past   Ya prochital knigu'I read [past] a book'. The reading has been completed. It is also possible to refer to the future by using imperfective aspect. This requires an auxiliary verb, which is the future tense (seemingly a real future tense) of to be:     Ya budu chitat' knigu 'I will be reading a book'.Russian motion verbs have iterative and durative aspects. Iterative means frequent actions (going there and back or going generally or repeatedly) and durative means one way motion.Iterative   Ya hozhu v shkolu'I go to school', 'I attend school' ('I visit school')Durative   Ya idu v shkolu'I'm going to school'Both of those aspects are also imperfective. The durative aspect can be used as the perfective aspect for both verbs, though the iterative aspect can be used as perfective, too, but it has then a different kind of meaning. Those verbs can get more specific meanings with prefixation, but then the iterative verb becomes imperfective and the durative verb becomes perfective. (A bit confusing, isn't it.)So, Russian marks its aspects morphologically in verbs. English has verbal aspect, too, but it marks them periphrastically, using separate verbs. Strictly speaking, English has only two tenses but it can use aspect combinations.I read [past] a book has past tense and perfective aspect. I was reading a book has past tense continuous/progressive aspect. I have been reading a book is again present tense but it combines perfect and continuous aspects. I had read a bookl has past tense and perfect aspect. Aspect can be used in non-finite forms, which is not possible for tenses: to have read a book, having read a book. Continuous aspect is obviously imperfective. Note that perfect aspect is not the same as perfective aspect: perfect tells about a completed action from the point of view of the time of reference, whereas perfective tells that a single action was, has been or will be completed without a necessary link to the time of reference. Simple perfect is perfective but continuous perfect is imperfective.Some languages have no tenses but mark aspects. Chinese is an isolating language, that is, it doesn't have inflection and therefore it doesn't