 If the question means what is grammatical English, the answer is the English that is produced by its native speakers according to their inherent, subconscious rules. There is of course variation: what sounds perfectly grammatical and thus correct in the ears of a New Zealander, might sound incorrect in the ears of a Scot. None of those forms of English is more correct than any other. They have all developed during the natural process of language.Language also includes different registers. This means that language produced by the same speaker is different in different situations. In this case, we can say that it is the place that determines the correctness. Written language is a different thing from the spoken language because of its nature. Written language often has some kind of stylistic norms. Those norms depend, again, on the situation, and it is called style.Style means conscious choices in the usage of language. Situations vary and so do the requirements of style. Newspaper articles and scientific writing have their own conventions which form their style which is to be used when you write to a newspaper or to a scientific publication. Similarly, spoken language has different styles and registers that are used in different situations: your speech is clearly different in a job interview than it is in your bedroom. Science has its own specific definitions of words but in the everyday language those same words can be used with different meanings (for example irony does not mean the same in literature as it means in casual English). Nobody is expected to speak in a scientific or formal style on his/her living room couch. The norms of the standard (written) language are not supposed to be the standards of the spoken everyday language. It should not be used as the measure of "correctness".English doesn't have a very big difference between the spoken and written language, and thus the old prescriptive rules remain quite arbitrary, but they are still supposed to be stylistic, not something that should replace the way people talk in their everyday life. In some languages, like Finnish and Norwegian (nynorsk), the written language is artificially constructed in order to be equal to every dialect and social group, and in this case, the formal rules are not just random stylistic norms as in English. It is seen as correct to write according to these rules in formal situations, but they are not meant to be people's home languages.So, the correctness of language means the suitability of certain kind of usage of language to the situation where someone speaks or writes. Language is bigger than one speaker. Therefore, your language contains features that are not correct to another speaker, and respectively their language contains aspects that are incorrect in your language. Though, they are not wrong or incorrect per se, they are all parts of the same language.