 When people speak of "old languages", they usually mean two different things: how conservative the language is, and how long it has been written, or a combination of both. The article The 10 Oldest Languages Still Spoken In The World Today has been going around social media recently, and it focuses on the two points I mentioned in the first paragraph. Many times these kinds of articles are complete non-sense, published by journalists with no linguistic knowledge (many scientific reporters have a background in natural sciences, which is why they can't evaluate linguistics). However, this article starts with a very good paragraph about the language change, and the rest of the text should be read keeping that in mind.The question being about European languages, let's look at Finnish, Icelandic, Lithuanian and Irish Gaelic.Finnish is a conservative language within the Uralic family. It has plenty of words that have not change much after Proto-Uralic. For example, the Proto-Uralic word *pojka ('son') is poika in Finnish but fi in Hungarian, which is another Uralic language. If we look at Germanic loanwords, we can see that Finnish is conservative there, too, and thus claim  though a bit carefully  that it is more conservative than languages of another language family, at least phonologically. The Proto-Germanic word *kuningaz is kuningas in Finnish but kung/konung in Swedish, king in English and Knig in German. The Old Norse /au/ diphthong is still the original diphthong in Finnish, but it has changed in Scandinavian languages: Swedes say kpa ('to buy') (that has affrication , too) but Finns say kauppa ('shop, trade'). 'Saturday' is lauantai in Finnish but lrdag in Swedish and laugardagur [li-] in Icelandic, which has retained the spelling but changed the pronunciation. This leads us to Icelandic. Among the Germanic languages, it is really conservative. It has retained the grammatical cases, personal conjugation, the phonemes  and  and it has not merged masculine and feminine into uter unlike the most continental variaties, and it also has (artificial) lexical conservatism. Icelandic has not changed much during the time it has had written language, so it is what people like to call "old".Lithuanian is always referred to when speaking of historical comparative Indo-European research because it has retained many features that have vanished in other IE languages. Ferdinand de Saussure was very keen on the Lithuanian accentuation system because it would give us insight into the PIE accentuation system. The article considers Irish Gaelic an old language because it has been spoken in its current location for a long time. That is silly reasoning because many languages have been spoken a long time in their current locations. To my knowledge, Irish Gaelic has changed a lot during its history, even shifting from one typologic type to another. It doesn't have a long written history either. Because the Britonic language, which is the ancestor of the Insular Celtic languages, was spoken there before the Roman and Anglo-Saxon invasions, it is