 This is usually the case with linguistic minorities: they speak a minority language at home and the country's majority language outside. For example, 5,5% of Finns speak Swedish as their native language. Many of them are fully bilingual with Finnish, especially those who live in Finnish-dominated areas like Helsinki. It is common for them to use Finnish words in Swedish sentences. Children of immigrants usually have two native languages as well. Fully bilingualism can also be achieved by being born to parents who speak different languages. Combined with a country that has a third language, the child can grow to speak three languages. I have a second cousin who learned Finnish from her mother, English from her father and French from the environment. Therefore, she has three native level languages.Balanced bilingualism can however turn into monolingualism. One generation of the linguistic minority speaks two languages equally well but the proficiency in the minority language decreases in the following generations. That happens if the government does not encourage its minorities. In Russia, many Uralic languages as well as languages of other families are endangered. Minorities feel that they need to speak only Russian and because of that children don't learn their heritage languages properly. Even though a person is fully bilingual in two languages, he/she may not have the same competency in their different registers. A Vietnamese Finn told that she spoke both Finnish and Vietnamese as the native level but couldn't understand much of Vietnamese TV news because she hadn't learned formal Vietnamese. It is also possible to learn a second native language as an adult but it is difficult. A Finnish missionary called Martti Turunen went to Japan, where he got a strong feeling that he would like to be Japanese. After decades of living there, he really has become Japanese. He is now called Marutei Tsurunen, he has been a member of the Japanese parliament and sometimes he has a slight Japanese accent when he speaks his first native language Finnish.