 Finnish almost never uses honorifics. T-V distinction exists, but it is mostly restricted to customer service, particularly when the customer is old. Jaana Kapari-Jatta, the awarded Finnish translator of Harry Potter told in her book about the Harry Potter translation that she had to ponder whether to use T-V distinction in Finnish. Teachers in HP are addressed by using the title professor, which would be a natural place for the V forms. She decided to use only T forms, because it wouldn't be natural for Finnish children if students are calling their teachers with V.Finnish doesn't use honorific lexicon much. The only place I've ever had to use the words mister and mrs. was in the military. However, those words are usually retained in the Finnish translation. I don't have the English originals so I can't compare, but the Finnish translation calls Mr. and Mrs. Weasley often Weasley's father and Weasley's mother (Weasleyn is, Weasleyn iti, where the name Weasley is in singular genitive, although we normally would use it in plural when talking of the parents of a group of siblings). I think that the originals use just Mr. and Mrs. in the place of most of them. Though, the Finnish equivalents herra and rouva are used, too.Madam is translated matami, which is quite a weird word. I don't think it is actually a honorific in contemporary Finnish, and the only place I believe it can be heard is some old films. I suppose it is a good word to be used in fairy tales and comic books. Sir is not translated (or then it is translated by using the actual title of the addressee). When Dobby talks to Harry, every sir has just been left out from the translation. The story is supposed to happen in the UK so it wouldn't be good to remove every cultural feature in the speech of the characters. A dialogue such as Snape said that... Professor Snape, Harry...cannot happen in Finland, because people are not regularly addressed with titles outside of the military and the president's interviews, but the translation that follows the original text makes the situation culture-specific. To sum it up, I don't think that many of the honorifics are lost. Usually when English is translated into Finnish, sentences where a person is addressed with Mr., Mrs., doctor etc. are translated the verb being V, but in HP that has not been made. The titles of the characters are usually retained, because their total removing would lose the culture.