 As Mikhail Kotykhov noted, there are two stages of practicing pronunciation: tjhe "mechanical" way where you produce the sounds in isolation, and "dynamic" way where you use those sounds as a part of the language. My advice is to do both. The more difficult the sound is and the more different it is from your native language, the more energy you must pay on to handle with it. If the sound is physically alien to you (such as implosives or clicks), you need to make yourself familiar with the technique. You need to start with repeating the sound with one word or even in isolation in order to try how it feels to you physically (and of course mentally too). If you just try to use it immediately in floating speech, you may not be able to catch the sound because then you don't have time to focus on it.It is also important to note that sounds in languages are based on opposition. A sound is meaningful because it is not another sound. If the language you are learning has more detailed oppositions than your native language, you need to check that you can distinguish the sounds from each other and to produce them distinctly yourself. For example, when contrasting with my language, English has two "a sounds", both which I would without practicing judge to be the same. In American English, the vowels in sock and suck are pretty close to each other, at least if you ask me. If you are not familiar with this distinction, it is important to practice that kind of words in order to make the distinction clear.As Mikhail wrote, the technical practice alone is not enough. When people are drunk, they often speak more dialectically or with a stronger foreign accent than they sober do. That's because they then have less control over their language producing. It is the same thing when you speak a foreign language in a real-life situation where you are under stress and unable to pay attention to individual sounds. For instance, I can pronounce English both with General American and Standard Southern British English accents. However, if I'm using English in a situation where there is a lot of disturbance, I easily mix those accents and perhaps get some inference from my native language. That's why you need usage practice to make your sound system automatic. A good way to master the pronunciation of floating speech is to read texts aloud. In that situation, you don't need to concentrate on the meaning, grammar or communicational things. You can just think of the pronunciation. This is like the middle ground between the isolation practice and the conversational practice. When you notice that you have problems with some sounds or patterns in conversational speech, you can go back to texts and "locate" the problem and practice it more without disturbance. You can observe, sounds, group of sounds, stress, rhythm and intonation, which you should also be able to apply for the actual language usage. Then you can and should go to real-life situations to use what you've learnt.