 have tenses. It marks aspect with separate particles, though. wo kan shu Without context, we just can say that there is I performing the act of reading a book or books. The time reference can be now or in the past or in the future. zuotian wo kan shu'Yesterday I read a book'. The lexical time reference indicates when the reading took place.  wo kan le shu'I read a book'. The aspect particle indicates that the reading has come to its end. English favours simple past here.  wo kan guo shu'I have read a book'. Now we have another aspect particle here. It tells that the speaker has an experience of reading books. English can use present perfect here.  wo zhengzai kan shu'I'm reading a book'Foreigners often think those are Chinese tenses because of their meanings and translations, but they are really aspects. Some languages imply aspect in tense. These languages have a different tense depending on the aspectual meaning. The distinction between preterite and imperfect tenses in Romance languages belongs to this category. Latin made the distinction with imperfect and perfect tenses. Latin perfect expresses completed actions but it does not have the difference between perfect aspect and simple past. It is just a preterite. Imperfect tense describes uncompleted actions. ImperfectLibrum legebam'I was reading a book'PerfectLibrum legi'I read a book', 'I have read a book'Latin also had morphological tenses for future (legam 'I will read'), pluperfect (legeram 'I had read') and future perfect (legero 'I will have read'). They include aspect: pluperfect and future perfect are perfective (or perfect) and future and present (lego) are imperfective. In English, those would be aspects combined with present or past tense and modality (if we want to see the future tense as such).Aspect can be marked in other parts of the sentence than just verbs. Finnic languages use object to indicate the aspect of transitive clauses. Partitive case is imperfective, accusative case is perfective. The same clauses as in the Russian examples are in Finnish as follows:Imperfective presentLuen kirjaa'I'm reading a book' (now or as a process)Imperfective pastLuin kirjaa'I was reading a book' or 'I read some of the book'Perfective presentLuen kirjan'I will read a book' (Refers to the future as in Russian)Perfective pastLuin kirjan'I read a book' (completed)As can be seen, the verb indicates only the tense, whereas the case alternation in the object indicates the aspect. If the verb expresses a change in the state of the object, the imperfective aspect is irresultative (atelic) and the perfective aspect is resultative (telic). When we want to shoot a bear, we want to kill it, and the result is told by the object case.ResultativeAmmuin karhun'I shot a bear (and it died)'IrresultativeAmmuin karhua'I shot a bear (but it survived)'Some verbs are lexically irresultative. To love is not a process with a result so it automatically requires an object with the partitive case (as in imperfectives and irresultatives): rakastan sinua 'I love you', but we can make it resultative in a figurative expression rakastan sinut kuoliaaksi 'I (will) love you to death'. Aspect is not only the distinction between perfective and imperfective actions or telicity and atelicity, but it can denote subtler meanings as well. Finnish has verb derivations for momentane (1), frequentative (2) and proximative (3) or combined (4). Those can be used in any tense (proximative is a nominal form so it requires an auxiliary to show the tense).(1) huudahdan 'I shout once and briefly'(2) huutelen 'I shout / am shouting repeatedly'(3) huutamaisillani 'me being about to shout'(4) huudahtelen 'I shout / am shouting once briefly at one time but repeatedly'huudahtamaisillani 'me being about to shout once briefly'huutelemaisillani 'me being about to shout repeatedly'huudahtelemaisillani 'me being about to shout once breafly at one time but repeatedly'All in all, tense tells the place of the action on the timeline. Aspect tells the relation of the action to the timeline.