 Dalian is my favorite city in China, though more because it has a laid-back vibe and a relatively clean environment than because it's chock full of attractions. Nonetheless, here are some things I've enjoyed in my time there:Tiger Beach () has a small aquarium with penguins and other animals, an amusement park, and an old Chinese Navy ship you can board and walk around.Russian Street east of the train station is a remnant of the city's past, when it was called Dairen and was part of Russia. You can see the old Russian-style buildings and browse shops full of Russian goods, from food to random knickknacks.The Shell Museum near Xinghai Park has an impressive collection of seashells with information (in Chinese) on the animals that used to wear them. The shells are worth seeing even if you can't read the labels.Dining on the fresh local seafood. Ask a local what the good restaurants are since they change and any recommendation I could give would be out of date already.Bingyu Valley Scenic Area () bills itself as "little Guilin" which is an overstatement, but it's quite a pleasant area with gorges and a small river to walk along. A bit of a drive from Dalian but easily doable as a day trip.Labor Park () is large and varied, with wooded paths you can walk in isolation, a miniature zoo, a couple of the city's most famous landmarks (the "soccer ball" and the giant Ferris wheel), amusement park rides, and a ski lift leading up to the TV tower on the hill above, which is also open to the public and has a good exhibit (in Chinese) on Dalian's history.The electronics shopping mall underneath Olympic Square is fun to walk around, though it's nothing you wouldn't find in half a dozen other cities.At night (though possibly not every night) the plaza behind the train station turns into a giant dance floor with various partner dances including hustle, tango, and west coast swing.People's Square () has a water show in the evening with dancing fountains and music. It seems to be a popular family outing.If you're there at the right time of year, go out to one of the local cherry farms. Several of them let you pick your own fresh cherries. Dalian's cherries are quite good.Eat! There are good restaurants scattered around the city, but if you want an easy quick fix in the older part of the city, the shopping area underneath Victory Square has a food court with a large variety of different foods. A slightly more upscale, but still inexpensive, alternative would be the floor underneath the Wal-Mart near Olympic Square. And of course there is plenty of street food to choose from; a couple of the side streets off of Huanghe Road near Liaoning Normal University have an especially large number of vendors at night, as does the area just north of Labor Park near the New Mart shopping mall.As is probably obvious from my answer, I'm more partial to the original part of the city on the southern side of Dalian Bay than to the Jinzhou area; it has more character in my opinion.