 With around 30 countries in my travel history, mostly visited solo but occasionally with guides, I've found I don't enjoy guided visits more than I enjoy the ones I do on my own or with a traveling companion. The experience with a guide is different, no question, but to me it's no better or worse on balance. I learn more in some respects and less in other respects. There's less frustration with a guide handling things, but for the same reason there's less sense of adventure and accomplishment.It's not just about itinerary flexibility, though I have yet to meet a guide who's well-suited to my preferred travel style of, "That street looks interesting -- let's go walk down it and see what's there" where there is literally no itinerary at all and I'm just kind of taking each day as it comes and moving on to the next place whenever I feel like it.By virtue of the guide knowing what they're doing, guided trips remove the possibility of screwing up and doing dumb things out of ignorance, which, while rarely pleasant in the moment, often turns into some of the best stories after the fact. Traveling with a guide also adds pressure to be in social interaction mode all day long every day, which becomes increasingly exhausting and stressful for introverts like me as a trip progresses. Often I want to walk around looking at my surroundings without talking to anyone.I'll sometimes go on 1-day guided tours of particular places when I travel, especially special-interest tours where I would have a hard time making the arrangements on my own. For example, in Buenos Aires earlier this year I went on a guided street-art tour where the guide knew a bunch of the local artists and took us to meet some of them and watch them work. That kind of thing is hard to do without local help. But to me that's distinct from just hiring a general-purpose local guide to take me around.That said, there are some places that are impractical (if not impossible) to visit without a guide, and I'll use one in those cases. For example, if I'd tried to do a solo visit to North Korea instead of a guided one, you would probably be reading news stories about my imprisonment!