 (Disclaimer: I read the original editions of all three books. It's possible that the English translator was allowed to take enough liberties to improve some of the shortcomings.)I've found it well worth reading, but I fear the huge accolades it's getting from reviewers will set readers' expectations too high. Some minor spoilers below but I'll try to keep it all pretty vague.The "science" part of the science fiction is intriguing and full of ideas that haven't been hammered to death in the genre already. You have to grant him a few specific points of suspension of disbelief, but Liu takes those points and really runs with them. Though he's not the first to propose it, his solution to the Fermi Paradox is plausible and well-developed.The "fiction" part doesn't fare as well. All but a small handful of the characters are paper-thin, especially in the first book. This gets better as the series goes on, but I had a really hard time connecting with several of the protagonists. There are large stretches of the first and second books where not much happens, which would be fine in a story with engaging characters, but is not so pleasant with dull ones. In several places the story is advanced by extremely convenient coincidences and by characters making massive intuitive leaps that haven't been previously hinted at.That said, the story also has some delightful twists and turns, and I often had no idea where it was going to go next. Each of the three books has a hook that makes it pretty unusual, if not unique, in the genre: the Cultural Revolution setting of the first book, the very slowly ticking doomsday clock of the second book, and the migrations in the third book.The non-western cultural perspective has a big impact on the story. From a western reader's point of view, this is both for better and for worse. The "better" is largely that the story avoids some of the tropes of western science fiction, and some of the characters have viewpoints and decisionmaking processes one doesn't encounter often in western SF. The "worse" is that the story has characters from all over the world, and the non-Chinese characters sometimes act kind of bizarrely, betraying the same kind of lack of understanding that often causes western writers to stumble when they try to write Asian characters. And when the story described the global reaction to certain major events, I found myself having to suspend my disbelief pretty strongly: it's hard to imagine there wouldn't have been huge numbers of escape attempts in the second and third books, for example.In general I give the series a thumbs up, but don't expect it to be the most amazing thing you've ever read.