 "Best" is pretty general and I don't think any one place deserves that label without qualification. But here are my picks in a few categories:Best natural scenery: Jiuzhaigou. This place is just as stunning as it looks in all the pictures. In autumn the red and yellow leaves on the trees are a delightful contrast to the deep blues and greens of the minerals in the water. I intend to go back in wintertime at some point to see what it's like in the ice and snow.Best food: Chengdu. The food is pretty good in a lot of places in China. The best individual restaurants in the country are probably in Beijing and Shanghai. But in Chengdu, unlike those cities, there seems to be very little bad food; everything I had from every mom-and-pop eatery and street vendor and fancy restaurant while I was there was delicious.Best tourism: Beijing. Hard to top the depth and breadth of Chinese history on display in and around this city; the Forbidden City alone takes more than a full day if you really want to see everything. The tourist infrastructure is well-developed and the city has plenty to offer people with all kinds of different interests. Whenever anyone asks me where they should go on their first visit to China, my answer is Beijing.Best place to hang out: Dalian. Dalian doesn't have the best scenery, its history has interesting bits (mostly to do with its Russian and Japanese past) but nothing too spectacular, and the food is about average for a city of its size. What it has, though, is a much more relaxed, friendly feel than most other Chinese cities I've visited, plus much less air pollution than other coastal cities and a lot of nice green spaces. It's big enough to have all the goods and services you'd want, but not oppressively huge. If I had to choose any place in China to live, this would almost certainly be my choice. However, I wouldn't recommend it as a stop on a tour itinerary since its charms wouldn't be apparent in a "stop for 2 days and rush around all day seeing the top tourist attractions" scenario.Of course, I haven't been everywhere in China, so maybe there are places I'd rate higher in all of those categories but just don't know about yet.