 As a newly-arrived immigrant without a higher education and with limited skill in the language of your new home, your job prospects are pretty limited. You can choose manual labor. In a lot of cases there's a business sector that is dominated by people from your country and is set up to hire newly-arrived immigrants (think Cambodian donut shops or Vietnamese hairdressers in the USA). But the one skill you probably have is feeding yourself and your family, so opening a restaurant to make a living from that skill makes a lot of sense. If there's a big enough population of people from wherever you're from, you'll even have a good support network and a lot of business resources available to you, not to mention a pool of potential customers for your food.This is not unique to Chinese people. A couple blocks from my house there's a Lebanese restaurant owned by a family from Lebanon. It's pretty easy to find Italian restaurants opened by Italian people. Your local authentic sushi joint? Probably opened by a Japanese person. Visit London and you'll find all sorts of Indian restaurants with owners from India. When I was going to school in China there was a hamburger place around the corner owned by an American expat.That said, the Chinese diaspora is large enough and has been going on long enough that there are some interesting and unique things about the Chinese restaurant world. In a lot of ways it forms a distinct sector of the economy. For a great history of overseas Chinese food, I highly recommend Jennifer 8. Lee's book "The Fortune Cookie Chronicles." You will learn all about the pipeline of people moving from Fujian province to the United States to work in restaurants (there's a network of people in both the USA and China who work the immigration system to keep the supply of new arrivals flowing), about the reasons so many Chinese restaurant menus in the USA look identical to one another (there's a company that sells them!) and about how various Chinese dishes were adapted to foreign taste.