 Not too differently from how it's done in English. The tonal aspect of Mandarin still leaves people with a ton of ability to vary their intonation; it's all about relative changes in intonation in a single syllable or a pair of syllables, rather than like singing a song where you have to get the pitch exactly right or it's off-key.Here's an analogy that might help make it clearer. When you ask a question in English you raise the pitch of the end of the sentence. Are you able to use tone to convey nuances in the last word or two at the end of a question in English, while still raising the pitch enough to make it very clear that the sentence is a question? You probably are, and you probably don't even have to make a conscious effort to do it. It's the same with Mandarin: the language imposes some structure on your intonation but within that structure you still have plenty of room to add all the nuance you want.Since the language's tonality is based on relative changes in intonation within a word, it's also possible to say an entire word or phrase at a higher or lower pitch (but still use the proper tone contours within the word) to convey information.Where it departs from English a little bit, and takes a bit of practice as a learner, is when you use intonation to indicate a question. Broadly, it's still similar to English: a rise in tone at the end turns a sentence into a question. But the syllables at the end of the sentence still need to have their own tones. So what you end up doing is starting from a baseline of a steadily rising intonation and making tone changes relative to that, such that a word that would normally be pronounced with a flat intonation is instead pronounced with a rising one, a word that would normally be pronounced with a rising tone gets a tone that rises much faster than usual, and a word that would normally be pronounced with a falling tone either becomes flat or falls only slightly. When this is done over the course of multiple syllables, it's pretty obvious what's going on and the listener still hears it in terms of the expected per-syllable tone changes.Of course, there are also other ways to include extra information in speech, e.g., changing the speed of your speech, speaking louder or dropping to a whisper, or pausing between words. All of those kinds of things work just as well in Mandarin as in English or any other language.As always, I welcome corrections from native speakers; the above is my understanding as someone who is still learning the language.