 I'm going to assume the "early" here refers to the original pre-reboot run of the show rather than to the very earliest black-and-white episodes with the First Doctor.In terms of production values: the original is far worse, sometimes laughably so. That's part of the charm for the most part, though occasionally it distracts from the stories.In terms of storytelling: it varies. The first two Doctors' stories would for the most part be considered far too slow-paced by today's standards; even as a fan I find it a chore to watch some of them. By the Third Doctor (Jon Pertwee) the pace picked up. For my money, the storytelling in the episodes for Doctors 3-5 was the best of the show both pre- and post-reboot. The show started to run out of steam by the Sixth Doctor (Colin Baker) with less-interesting stories.During the years of Doctors 3, 4, and 5, the show benefited a lot from its format, despite the need for cliffhangers David Stewart's answer mentions. Most stories were four half-hour episodes, roughly double the length of a standalone episode of the new series. That gave the writers ample opportunity to do world-building. A frequent feature of stories of that era was that a lot of screen time was devoted to the guest characters, showing their situation in detail and developing their personalities -- whereas the modern series is almost always from the point of view of the Doctor or his companion, the original series often presented the points of view of the people living in whichever place the story was set. This gave the stories more depth and allowed the writers to build more complex, detailed worlds.That difference extended beyond mere screen time. The new series' stories tend to be driven forward by the Doctor. He is unambiguously the most important character not just of the show as a whole, but of each story's narrative. In some cases it's fair to say that absent the Doctor's arrival, nothing interesting would have happened in the places he visited. The original series sometimes took that approach, but more often, the Doctor arrived in the middle of events already in motion, and the guest characters were active players in the narrative.Of the new series, I'd say the two-parter "The Impossible Planet" / "The Satan Pit" came closest to the storytelling style of the original series.Both versions of the show have their merits and both of them have lousy episodes as well as brilliant ones, but for me, if you can get past the shoddy sets and laughable special effects, the old series is, by and large, the better of the two.