 My very first job out of High School was working on a garbage truck. It wasn't unionized, so the pay really wasn't very good, $125/w. And halfway through the job, one out of the two trucks the company owned broke down, so, the route became twice as long. I was always dirty, and came home smelling horrible.I loved that job. I got a lot of fresh air, I built up a lot of muscle, and I liked the people I worked with. However, I did discover something about myself: I didn't want to be a garbage man my whole life. And fortunately while I was loading some trash one day, I found some books that gave all sorts of good information about the Atari 8 bit computers, which is a computer system I was already familiar with. So that gave me the boost I needed to head back to school.But the question is about bad jobs. In my mind, these are jobs where you are ineffectual, and you cannot grow. I grew a lot in that first job, both physically, and motivationally. As software engineer amongst the many excellent jobs I've been fortunate to have, I've had a handful of jobs that felt stagnating. Sometimes, I was simply not interested in the domain, sometimes because my input was not valued, and sometimes, the energy of the company was utterly flat.This was the case in my last bad job. I took it because it seemed promising. It was in the field of genetics, which I've always found fascinating, and there were lots of Ph.D.s on staff, so lots of opportunities to learn. On paper, it was awesome. However, there was simply no energy there.I've been working in and around games for a long time. The crowd tends towards younger and energetic. I actually do well in open floor plans where I have direct contact with my peers and we can collaborate on things when necessary. One thing an open floor plan has is energy.This company was older. Lots older. I'm pushing fifty, and I was was of the younger folks there. The energy was utterly flat. I worked in a cube, with barely any contact with other members of the team. They also didn't seem to understand web based technologies, and I was unable to have any influence in this. The design was horrible, and I couldn't change it.So when an old boss called me up a few moths later and told me he was going to try to poach me, I nearly dropped to the ground to thank god, and I'm an atheist.That job was so bad, it doesn't make it on to my resume.So, lets contrast it with my first job. The first job had lots of energy, it pushed me to become better, and I enjoyed the people worked with. Totally different from this newer job. I was board, uninspired and had barely any interaction with my peers. That's the difference between a good and a bad job.