 Morphologically, H. sapiens and H. neanderthalensis are very distinct:This is because neanderthals and modern humans split off from a common ancestor about 500,000 years ago. That gives time for a lot of divergence.Culturally, neanderthals and humans were likely very different. For instance, their hunting styles. Based on common injuries found in neanderthal fossils, they found that these were consistent with close-quarters fighting. There is no evidence that they used projectile weapons like early H. sapiens did.Also, in terms of tools and ornamentation, H. sapiens had a far more advanced culture.That said, once you cover a neanderthal with muscle and skin, they look close enough to a humans, despite possible cognitive differences, that given human sexual proclivities, sexual interactions would not be unexpected. However, based on the DNA evidence, it looks like this interaction was not necessarily common, or failed to produce viable offspring. This could be due to difficulty in successful fertilization because of genomic divergence, or because the two cultures rarely interacted.As far as being the same species, as others have noted, species are a human construct, and nature doesn't really care about our convenience. Species borders can be fuzzy, and gene flow between populations can still happen sporadically leading to occasional hybridization before divergence makes this impossible.For an example of fuzzy species borders, we can look to Ring Species. A ring species is a gradient of populations which can interbreed with their neighbors, but the furthest ends cannot produce fertile offspring. If the two ends of this series of populations meet, for instance the gradient wrapping around a geological feature, such as a mountain range, they appear to be two different species. For example the Ensatina salamanders of the american pacific coast:In this case, the species migrated from north to south, with different populations branching around the central valley. When they meet on the other side, the divergence in populations gives us two different species.So, were neanderthals a separate species? Well, based on anatomy, they are different enough that they are classed that way. And the gene flow between the different populations appears to be minimal. But because species is such a fuzzy concept, it doesn't really matter. The labels are convenient.