 This is my original flippant answerBecause these severe flaws are imaginary. Evolution is taught because it is the cornerstone of modern biology, and to leave it out of education would be near criminal. Why do you hate children?I'm going to make this much richer, since the details were added.By flaws I mean things like irreducible complexityThe problem with irreducible complexity is that it assumes a certain model of evolution, while ignoring other paths. IC assumes that evolution happens by the incremental addition of parts. It makes no allowances for other mechanisms such as Exaptation. This is the process where a trait originally evolved with one function, is coopted to be used in an entirely different way. Quoting from the above Wikipedia entry:There are many examples of exaptations. A classic example is how feathers, which initially evolved for heat regulation, were co-opted for display, and later co-opted for use in bird flight.In fact, one of Behe's iconic examples of this, the moustrap, has been shown to be reducible. A reducibly complex mousetrapthe circular reasoning of the concept of Survival of the Fittest (the fittest are those who survive and those who survive are deemed the fittest. This is a conclusion based on an assumption, in turn used to prove the original assumption.)This is an understandable mistake, even Karl Popper himself made it. But to quote him on this subject from: What Did Karl Popper Really Say About Evolution?I mention this problem because I too belong among the culprits. Influenced by what these authorities say, I have in the past described the theory as "almost tautological," and I have tried to explain how the theory of natural selection could be untestable (as is a tautology) and yet of great scientific interest.He then goes on:I have changed my mind about the testability and logical status of the theory of natural selection; and I am glad to have an opportunity to make a recantation. . . .The theory of natural selection may be so formulated that it is far from tautological. In this case it is not only testable, but it turns out to be not strictly universally true. To be more specific, when examining if a gene is under selective pressure, the hypothesis of natural selection can be compared to Neutral Theory: The Null Hypothesis of Molecular Evolution. Natural selection of genes is not tautological, it can actually be tested without assuming itself. the violation of the Second Law of Thermodynamics- described as axiomatic to evolutionary thinking.This is a less forgivable misunderstanding, as it simply represents sloppy thinking. Thermodynamics doesn't claim that things go from ordered to messy. It essentially says that no process can gain more energy than is put into it. There are no mechanisms of evolution that propose such a thing. In fact, the mechanisms of evolution are essentially reproduction. I think you would agree that having a baby does not violate the second law. The