 This is my original flippant answerBecause these severe flaws are imaginary. Evolution is taught because it is the cornerstone of modern biology, and to leave it out of education would be near criminal. Why do you hate children?I'm going to make this much richer, since the details were added.By flaws I mean things like irreducible complexityThe problem with irreducible complexity is that it assumes a certain model of evolution, while ignoring other paths. IC assumes that evolution happens by the incremental addition of parts. It makes no allowances for other mechanisms such as Exaptation. This is the process where a trait originally evolved with one function, is coopted to be used in an entirely different way. Quoting from the above Wikipedia entry:There are many examples of exaptations. A classic example is how feathers, which initially evolved for heat regulation, were co-opted for display, and later co-opted for use in bird flight.In fact, one of Behe's iconic examples of this, the moustrap, has been shown to be reducible. A reducibly complex mousetrapthe circular reasoning of the concept of Survival of the Fittest (the fittest are those who survive and those who survive are deemed the fittest. This is a conclusion based on an assumption, in turn used to prove the original assumption.)This is an understandable mistake, even Karl Popper himself made it. But to quote him on this subject from: What Did Karl Popper Really Say About Evolution?I mention this problem because I too belong among the culprits. Influenced by what these authorities say, I have in the past described the theory as "almost tautological," and I have tried to explain how the theory of natural selection could be untestable (as is a tautology) and yet of great scientific interest.He then goes on:I have changed my mind about the testability and logical status of the theory of natural selection; and I am glad to have an opportunity to make a recantation. . . .The theory of natural selection may be so formulated that it is far from tautological. In this case it is not only testable, but it turns out to be not strictly universally true. To be more specific, when examining if a gene is under selective pressure, the hypothesis of natural selection can be compared to Neutral Theory: The Null Hypothesis of Molecular Evolution. Natural selection of genes is not tautological, it can actually be tested without assuming itself. the violation of the Second Law of Thermodynamics- described as axiomatic to evolutionary thinking.This is a less forgivable misunderstanding, as it simply represents sloppy thinking. Thermodynamics doesn't claim that things go from ordered to messy. It essentially says that no process can gain more energy than is put into it. There are no mechanisms of evolution that propose such a thing. In fact, the mechanisms of evolution are essentially reproduction. I think you would agree that having a baby does not violate the second law. The complete lack of fossil records (supposedly ape to human fossils are proof. These have all been debunked. I'm not sure where you got this debunked idea, but you're simply wrong. I also suspect you are seriously underestimating the number of fossil hominids there are. You also appear to not understand that evolution is not linear, it is bushy. Here is an example of a possible cladogram of humans most recent ancestors: Not exactly linear. And that is not a complete catalog of fossil species and many of these have multiple fossil instances.With that said, many clear trends can be found when looking at our ancestry. For example this image:29+ Evidences for MacroevolutionThis image doesn't represent a linear evolution, but it does show the development of derived human like features from something more basal.But here's something else to think about- where are the fossils that show what a pig evolved from, or a bear, what about a dolphin- an air breathing mammal that lives in the water, how did this evolve over millions of years, one gene mutation at a time, and from what? What about the apes we supposedly came from? Bears and dogs are pretty closely related. In fact, close to the base of their family tree there is a species called, wait for it, Bear dog.The Evolution of cetaceans, like dolphins, actually has a pretty good record. Perhaps most interesting is Ambulocetus natans. This is an early cetacean that was well adapted for life both in and out of the water.Why are no fossils found for the failed mutations of the animals we now see today? Because there would not be very many of those around. Fossilization is a pretty rare occurrence. Not to mention that "failure" doesn't fossilize well. The staggering amount of assertions by supposed experts they simply dream up to explain things without evidence, or being questioned? Evolution is one of the best theories science has going. It explains a wide diversity of otherwise seemingly unrelated data, and it makes specific, risky, testable predictions that never fail to confirm under a growing mountain of evidence. Scientists so roundly accept it because it appears to be true. What do you think makes more sense, that all these experts with decades of education and research experience are wrong and you are right. Or that they may know somethings that you do not?These severe flaws. Why are these blindly skimmed over or simply omitted altogether?Because, these flaws are nonexistent. They are the product of religious leaders who have a vested, emotional interest in this particular science being wrong.I'm not attempting to troll here, I'm legitimately asking why this has been so widely taught despite very obvious and serious problems behind the smoke and mirrors. Am I missing something or is the educational system really that poor?I'm glad you are not trolling. The problem is not with education and evolution, the problem is with your understanding. But that problem can be fixed.