 of Computer Music Journal, Joseph Rothstein highlights the role of orchestration, stating: In the foreground, a steady stream of energetic babble captures our attention, while in the background, a chorus of processed 'background singers' wordlessly provides a restful contrast [] In the first, the chorus seems to explode softly from the background, punctuating the chatter with terse comments. Regarding tonal harmonies, Lansky has said in a number of interviews that Idle Chatter was his first tonal composition. The traditional harmonies here function to curate the listener's focus over the duration of the work. This curation, moving from one aspect to another, contributes greatly to a sense of development. Lansky emphasizes this in the interview with Joshua Cody (Computer Music Journal, Spring 1996):I wanted to simplify certain aspects of the sound to allow myself to concentrate upon certain other aspects. In a way, I'm being evasive by using tonal textures. I didn't want to present a context in which one not only had to parse a complicated timbral texture and a complicated rhythmic texture, but also a complicated pitch texture.[ For Idle Chatter] I had lots of voices going all over the place, chattering right and left. To make any sense of it, I found I had to simplify the pitch structure. When I was working on it I started out using fairly complicated pitch structures, and found that the listening experience proved to be utterly exhausting. I just got tired, and I couldn't really deal with it. The chattering became chaotic. As soon as I decided to place a B-flat triad in the background, I found myself able to listen to all kinds of things and fascinating qualities emerged. There is kind of a didactic twist to this, for what it's worth. In a way I'm sitting the listener down in a familiar place and then tweaking his ears with a more bizarre context. In this case B flat major is perhaps acting more as a foundation for exploration than as an assertion that tonality has God-given virtue. The Often Mechanical Approaches to the Voice (Relinquishing Control vs. Intervening Craft) A major commonality amongst these works is the reliance (to varying degrees) on compositional processes or systems, relinquishing creative control over certain micro level aspects. I am sitting in a room has no intervention by the composer on how the material is crafted, only the concept of the work itself features decision making solely allocated to Lucier. The choice of text, though often is Lucier's in practice, need not be. Likewise, the number of playback iterations is frequently approximated to match Lucier's recordings, but again need not. Thus, the only control the composer retains is through the certainty of a given speech's loss of articulation and linguistic comprehension through the acoustics of a physical space over time. Of the four works, Harvey retains the most creative control at the micro-level with Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco; crafting each individual gesture intuitively. Nevertheless, there are still several compositional systems the composer relies on. The large-scale pitch structure is mapped from the Winchester tenor bell overtones. Thus, a vertical harmony becomes a horizontal melodic line. Similarly, the lowest eight harmonics present in this pure bell instance are used as pitch centers for the eight sections constituting the work. Each of these harmonics relate not only to the pitch material, but also to the duration of each section (i.e. the higher the partial, the shorter the duration and vice versa). In recapping, the proportions, harmonies, and fully fleshed-out melodies (excluding the subsequent melodic fragmentation) are all taken from the source sounds of the tenor bell and (to a lesser extent) the chorister recording. Reich maintains a similar approach to Lucier's I am sitting in a room with regards to creative intervention within the processes of Come Out. A concept is established and once the materials are properly set up the piece plays out with little intervention or decision making by the composer. Indeterminate parameters seen in I am sitting in a room are, however, replaced in Come Out with carefully chosen concrete instructions and treatments. The text is not only a required selection by Reich but also the specific excerpts which are then used as samples ad nauseam. These samples are intuitively spliced by the composer, and the points of phase, though appearing to be perfect mathematical ratios in duration, were intuitively approximated as well. These decisions (especially the particular length of each sample spliced from the tape reel), though lacking continual intervention as the work progresses, do fundamentally shape the moment-by-moment outcomes, altering both the text comprehension and the composition in its entirety. A slight lengthening or shortening of any section of the vocal statement would compound over time and phase, changing one's highly tuned perceptual experience as a listener and speaker of language even with the process itself unaffected. Regarding Idle Chatter, Lansky stated in the Jeffrey Perry / Perspectives of New Music conversation that the bulk of the detail work is done with a kind of algorithmic composition. I don't actually decide what notes goes where, I use a random probability method that scatters them with a fair degree of consistency. That works pretty well  I do it a lot. Introducing a random scatter of attacks further disrupts any effort to understand the voice as communication. Language is not random, and due to the highly structured and predictable nature of language one may impose such expectations on the voice in Idle Chatter. Listeners fit the randomized fragments into preexisting forms that logically constitute language. As a result, even though Lansky has carefully curated the points of focus for each section, what the listeners interpret and contextualize the randomness as is dependent on the individual. Lansky had expressed to Jeffrey Perry that he was very startled at first by the responses he got for Idle Chatter. Nobody seemed to hear the same things [] there has to be a different kind of relation between the material and the way in which people engage it."