 [Image via Acousmata]In 1971 Lewis, a Chicago native, became a member of the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians (AACM), a non-profit organization founded in Chicago. The AACM was formed in May 1965 by a group of musicians centered on pianist Muhal Richard Abrams who had organized an Experimental Band since 1962. In addition to Abrams, other early members that Lewis would have frequently performed/improvised with included (in no particular order): Wadada Leo Smith, trumpet; Leroy Jenkins, violin; Anthony Braxton, saxophone/clarinet; Roscoe Mitchell, saxophone; and Douglas Ewart, winds; among others. Ewart recorded the album Homage to Charles Parker in 1979 with Lewis. Though it is unclear if and how the music of Charlie Parker shaped Lewis' conception of Voyager, it is likely that Parker's idiosyncrasies as a player influenced Lewis' practice, phrasing, and pacing on the trombone. This long-time involvement with the AACM makes up one of Lewis' core identities as a musician, and in May of 2008 Lewis published a book about the organization through the University of Chicago Press entitled A Power Stronger Than Itself: The Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians.The avant garde jazz aesthetic throughout much of the AACM concerts could have further informed versions of Voyager. The most famous recording, the solo takes with Lewis and Mitchell for the 1993 Avant release, is very much in the avant garde jazz / free improvisation vein. This aesthetic predisposition is not necessarily inherent to the construction of Voyager, but has nevertheless become commonplace with its performances. According to Lewis the Voyager program analyzes aspects of an improvisors performance in real time then generates complex responses to the musicians playing. If you want to hear the program play in a certain way, you figure out how what you want to hear is organized, and you start playing that way yourself. If one could play in any style to try and elicit a like response from the program, why is the avant garde jazz approach de facto in performances of Voyager? A musician could just as well freely improvise within a hard rock, blues, bluegrass, folk, etc. idiom and still work within the intended construct of Voyager. It is the decades of shared influence among the members of the AACM, who do maintain particular aesthetic leaning on their chosen instruments, that has, intentionally or not, established a precedent for how Voyager should sound. With the composer also existing as frequent performer of the work, his aesthetic decisions further emphasized as authoritative, despite the lack of formal instruction or restriction when approaching a new improvisation. The aspect of creating a software that responds in a musical way can be seen as part of the instrument building tradition with the AACM, and later the Art Ensemble of Chicago (AEC). It was standard for members of these groups to take on many creative roles-- composer, multi-instrumentalist, improvisor, bandleader, inventor, craftsman, and even programmer. In the artistic communities of the AACM and AEC where designing new objects of interaction (what they termed "little instruments") from bicycle horns, bells, birthday party noisemakers, wind chimes, and a vast array of percussion instruments (such as found objects) was ubiquitous, it then comes as little surprise