 I recently detailed how the human voice is manipulated in Lucier's I am sitting in a room in What about the "natural voice" is musical in Schwitters' Ursonate? How does this compare with the musical characteristics of Lucier's I Am Sitting in a Room? The following is an analysis of the voice in Harvey's Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco adapted from a research paper I wrote entitled: Use Your Illusion: An Analysis of Illusionary Compositional Techniques in Jonathan Harvey's Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco and Maryanne Amacher's Synaptic IslandTo begin, it is important to understand how the concept for the work was derived from the Latin inscription on the great tenor bell at Winchester Cathedral, England: Horas Avolantes Numero, Mortuos Plango: Vivos ad Preces Voco (I count the fleeing hours, I lament the dead: the living I call to prayer).[1] The above Latin text was sung by the composer's son, a young chorister, then the recording was treated to various countrapuntal manipulations. Similar processes were applied to the raw recording of the tolling Winchester tenor bell, creating a plethora of sounds generated only from these two sources. Next, while in residence at IRCAM in Paris, Harvey mapped the natural sound properties of the chorister and bell. Through the use of IRCAM's augmented MUSIC V programing language and with the assistance of Stanley Haynes and Xavier Rodet,[2] Harvey was able to create synthesized digital versions of these two sound sources, as well as structure the large-scale pitch motion throughout the work on their characteristic frequencies. The use of illusion in Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco stems from how Harvey employs the four sounds (original chorister, original bell, synthesized chorister, synthesized bell) throughout the work. Save for a few brief instances during the onset of the composition, these sounds are never fully stated in their basic (prime) form. Rather, the four sounds can be thought of as quadrants on a plane, whereby the musical gestures are represented by the lines between the sectors. From a listener's standpoint, the gradients from one sound to another are manifested in complex timbral transformations. It is the mid-points of these transformations force one to question  What is real? What is fake? and How is ambiguity achieved?Harvey carefully weaves the real, normal, and familiar original bell tone and voice sample with the fake, novel and unfamiliar synthetic guises of microtonal sine-tone glissandi connecting the bell transpositions, the reordered splicing of source material, and the mathematically generated static drones. The infinite gradients of perception between sound sources and synthesis was made possible due to the acoustic modeling of pitches, which revolutionized how electronic music could be created henceforth. As a representative example of working in such a fragile perceptual space, contributor Michael Clarke outlines composer Hans Tutschku's investigation of the transition between the first and section section in Analytical Methods of Electroacoustic Music, stating:There are three stages to the transformation. First, there is the original vocal sound Pre. This vocal sound cross-fades with sine waves on the most significant frequencies of the vocal sound. Next, these sine waves glissando toward the frequencies of selected partials of the bell on C (260 Hz), contracting in overall frequency range. Finally, (overlapping with these glissandi) these is another, expanding set of glissandi with vibrato, leading into the bell strike for Section 3. [The following figure] uses a sonogram to show this transformation in outline, and [the subsequent figure] shows its pitch structure in more detail, using semibreves to represent pivot notes. The move from the recorded Pre to a synthesized imitation enables the sound to