  There is no secret, however, if you do these things you can be sure to get the most out of any classical music experience.Read up on the background and context before listening, and ask yourself-- +What is the composer tying to accomplish here?+When and where was the work written? +What else was going on around that time and place?This will completely change how you listen. Many compositions have several layers of understanding, and without prior knowledge of the history and tradition only the most visceral, surface elements will be immediately clear. The surface might turn out to be enjoyable already, but just imagine how much better it would be if you saw the whole picture. Composers spend a tremendous amount of time endowing their works with depth, subtitles, and nuances. They use these efforts to draw relationships and comment on other music, art, literature, philosophy, society, culture, and the world at large.Today, for the vast majority of classical music, the answers to the above questions are easily available online. Classical Archives and Wikipedia are great places to start. Symphony orchestras and publishing companies upload program notes too. These notes are often written by the composer, a music director, music critic, or another specialist and concisely tell you what you need to know. Also, the BBC has produced a number of high quality documentaries about the lives and works of several famed classical composers. These are certainly worth checking out and will provide a great deal of insight. (see Where can I study about classical music?)Attend live performances with a friend, then discuss the concert afterwards. Classical music, from solo recitals and chamber ensembles to symphony orchestras and opera productions, is best as a communal experience. Conductors, composers, and music scholars frequently give pre-concert talks or lectures. Be sure to arrive at the venue early to hear these, as they are highly illuminating. In fact, concertgoers who are new to classical music and tying to get into the genre often tell me that they enjoy performances much more after hearing someone talk about the program. Watch closely to the physical movements and gestures of the conductor and performers. These musicians have spent decades honing their craft and it is astonishing how they are able to transform little black dots on a page to expressive narratives. If you can, take a look at the score and parts to "see under the hood" of what is required of them. After the event try to hang around for a little bit and chat with the musicians. Ask them all sorts of questions-- What was their favorite part of the concert? Which passage was the most difficult to learn? Etc.It helps to go with a friend, but even if going alone, do feel free to create a dialogue with other patrons. Have an opinion and discuss. Many classical compositions are intended to be thought provoking. Seek out those who are already highly knowledgeable about classical music and ask for recommendations. Classical music encompasses thousands of distinct composers over hundreds of years. The differences can be massive, and navigating such breadth can at times feel overwhelming. Talk to people who know more than you (I do this all the time) and ask them to point you towards music you are not yet familiar with. Put their recommendations through the who, what, when, where, and how. As for modern composers, it is a bit difficult to recommend without knowing more about someone's preferences. Like before, there are thousands of living composers writing in many different (sometimes opposing) styles. My advice is to listen to a wide variety of major figures with different aesthetics. Right away follow up on the ones you connect with, but also be sure to return to those you didn't. Musical taste is not set in stone, and yours will surely shift over time. Here is a sampling of big name composers today across many styles (in no particular order): George Benjamin, John Adams, Helmut Lachenmann, Kaija Saariaho, Joan Tower, Louis Andriessen, Phillip Glass, John Zorn, Augusta Read Thomas, Pierre Boulez, Steve Reich, Brian Ferneyhough, Sofia Gubaidulina, Thomas Ades, Tan Dun, Pauline Oliveros, Jennifer Higdon, Georg Friedrich Haas, James MacMillan, Unsuk Chin, Peter Maxwell Davies, John Harbison, Hans Abrahamsen, Arvo Prt.