 If someone had never tried beer before and, over the course of a week, I wanted to provide an introduction to the range/variety of offerings available I would pick (in no particular order):American Double / Imperial IPAPliny The Elder - Russian River Brewing Company (California, United States)Image via East meets West Review from BeerAdvocate magazine Vol. III Issue I:[...] Light honey amber in color, topped with a big, fluffy, creamy white head with a ton of glass stickage. Massive ripe pineapple aroma in the nose, with pine, mint, sappy resins, powdery pale malts and a hint of alcohol. Silky smooth, medium bodied, with a very firm consistency and slightly chewy back. Hop presence is artfully chaotic. Nice prickly stab on the palate up front, semisharp bitterness, grassy, zesty grapefruit, deep smacking of ripe pineapple and pine. Juicy fruitiness, notes of apple and pear too. Dry middle with suggestions of chalky aspirin. Bready malts, soft and sweet, provide a nice backboard for the hops. Oily and ashy hop resins stick to the palate and follow through into a dry, bitter linger. Alcohol becomes sentient as the beer warms, speaking to us in tongues. And despite this, remains insanely drinkable.*Alternates: Double Jack - Firestone Walker Brewing Co.; Heady Topper - The AlchemistAbbey Style Quadrupel (Quad) St. Bernardus Abt 12 - Brouwerij St. Bernardus NV (Belgium)Image via Lagringsexperiment: St Bernardus Abt 12 1988 The brewery describes this beer as:[...] Dark with a full, ivory-colored head. It has a fruity aroma, full of complex flavours and excells because of its long bittersweet finish with a hoppy bite. (10,0% ABV) Worldwide seen as one of the best beers in the world. It's a very balanced beer, with a full-bodied taste and a perfect equilibrium between malty, bitter and sweet. One of the original recipes from the days of license-brewing for the Trappist monks of Westvleteren.*Alternates: Trappistes Rochefort 10 - Brasserie de Rochefort; Three Philosophers - Brewery OmmegangGerman HefeweizenWeihenstephaner Hefeweissbier - Bayerische Staatsbrauerei Weihenstephan (Germany)The brewery describes this beer as:Our golden-yellow wheat beer, with its fine-poured white foam, smells of cloves and impresses consumers with its refreshing banana flavour. It is full bodied and with a smooth yeast taste. To be enjoyed at any time,goes excellently with fish and seafood, with spicy cheese and especially with the traditional Bavarian veal sausage. Brewed according to our centuries-old brewing tradition on the Weihenstephan hill.*Alternate: Franziskaner Hefe-Weisse - Spaten-Franziskaner-BruRussian Imperial StoutSamuel Smith's Imperial Stout - Samuel Smith Old Brewery Tadcaster (England, United Kingdom)Image via Olutarvio: Samuel Smith Imperial Stout The brewery describes this beer as: This distinctive type of beer was originally brewed to withstand the abuses of shipping in foul weather to Imperial Russia. It was a favourite of Russian nobility whose taste for the finest food and drink was world famous.A rich flavourful brew; deep chocolate in colour with a roasted barley nose and flavour that is a complexity of malt, hops, alcohol and yeast. Fermented in stone Yorkshire squares.  *Alternates: Old Rasputin Russian Imperial Stout - North Coast Brewing Co.; Oak Aged Yeti Imperial Stout - Great Divide Brewing CompanyCzech PilsenerPiercing Pils - Dogfish Head Brewery (Delaware, United States)Image via Reinventing Lagers The brewery describes this beer as:A Perry-Pils hybrid, Piercing Pils is a Czech Style Pilsner brewed with a White Pear Tea and Pear juice. Both the juice and the tea were added in the kettle during the whirlpool (after the boil) for maximum flavor and aroma contribution. The Pear fruit complexity pierces right through the spicy Czech Saaz hops beautifully, adding a gentle acidity to this pale lager that makes for a crisp refreshing sipper. Amarillo hops add nuanced citrus notes that meld perfectly with the fruit. DoppelbockSamichlaus Classic Bier - Brauerei Schloss Eggenberg (Austria)Image via Eggenberger Samichlaus ClassicDescription:The once strongest beer in the world is back ! Brewed only once a year on December 6. Samichlaus is aged for 10 months before bottling. This beer is perhaps the rarest in the world. Samichlaus may be aged for many years to come. Older vintages become more complex with a creamy warming finish. Serve with hardy robust dishes and desserts, particulary with chocolates, or as an after dinner drink by itself. Brewed under the exclusive licence of Feldschlsschen-Hrlimann-Holding, Switzerland.*Alternate: Ayinger Celebrator Doppelbock - Privatbrauerei Franz Inselkammer KG / Brauerei AyingSaison / Farmhouse Ale Saison Dupont - Brasserie Dupont sprl (Belgium) Image via Les Coureurs des Boires: mai 2012 A slightly cloudy yellow-colored ale with high carbonation, fruity and spicy aromas and tastes, and perceptible, somewhat quinine-like bitterness. Brewed in the Saison style from Pilsner malt and Kent Goldings and Styrian Goldings hops. Originally titled "Saison Vielle Provision", the beer was also dry-hopped until the brewery stopped this practice in favor of a larger late hop addition in the boil. Unfiltered and bottle-conditioned, Saison Dupont is packaged in green glass bottles of a thickness appropriate to withstand the substantial carbonation. The bottles are finished with a champagne-style cork and wire cage.Old AleTheakston Old Peculier - T & R Theakston Ltd. (England, United Kingdom)Image via The Br Rev - Theakston Old Peculier The brewery describes this beer as:Old Peculier is a beautiful, yet very simple beer, brewed using a very generous blend of finest pale, crystal and roasted barley with two bitter hops combined with the majestic and noble Fuggle hop to produce a beer of awesome full-bodied flavour with subtle cherry and rich fruit overtones. It tastes superb when accompanied by rich stews, strong cheeses and sweet puddings. TripelLa Fin Du Monde - Unibroue (Quebec, Canada)Image via Unibroue La Fin Du Monde Ale La Fin du Monde (literally French for "The End of the World" as per the translation on the back of each bottle) is a Belgian-style tripel and bottle conditioned golden ale introduced in July 1994. The name is claimed to derive from the European explorers' belief that they had reached the end of the world when they discovered America.The colour is a cloudy blonde with a golden hue. Though similar to Belgian tripels in appearance, La Fin du Monde is less bitter and more spicy (featuring coriander and orange peel), more similar to Tripel Karmeliet than standard tripels like Chimay and Westmalle. The beer contains a very high (9% ABV) alcohol content.*Alternate: Westmalle Trappist Tripel - Brouwerij WestmalleRye Beer Founders Red's Rye IPA - Founders Brewing Company (Michigan, United States)Image via Founders, Red's Rye P.A. The brewery describes this beer as:Serious hop bitterness, along with an unyielding grapefruit bouquet from the Amarillo dry hop, balances the malty richness of four varieties of imported Belgian caramel malts. Pours a spectacular crimson with a creamy tan head. A generous addition of rye malt accentuates a spicy, crisp finish.