 If someone had never tried beer before and, over the course of a week, I wanted to provide an introduction to the range/variety of offerings available I would pick (in no particular order):American Double / Imperial IPAPliny The Elder - Russian River Brewing Company (California, United States)Image via East meets West Review from BeerAdvocate magazine Vol. III Issue I:[...] Light honey amber in color, topped with a big, fluffy, creamy white head with a ton of glass stickage. Massive ripe pineapple aroma in the nose, with pine, mint, sappy resins, powdery pale malts and a hint of alcohol. Silky smooth, medium bodied, with a very firm consistency and slightly chewy back. Hop presence is artfully chaotic. Nice prickly stab on the palate up front, semisharp bitterness, grassy, zesty grapefruit, deep smacking of ripe pineapple and pine. Juicy fruitiness, notes of apple and pear too. Dry middle with suggestions of chalky aspirin. Bready malts, soft and sweet, provide a nice backboard for the hops. Oily and ashy hop resins stick to the palate and follow through into a dry, bitter linger. Alcohol becomes sentient as the beer warms, speaking to us in tongues. And despite this, remains insanely drinkable.*Alternates: Double Jack - Firestone Walker Brewing Co.; Heady Topper - The AlchemistAbbey Style Quadrupel (Quad) St. Bernardus Abt 12 - Brouwerij St. Bernardus NV (Belgium)Image via Lagringsexperiment: St Bernardus Abt 12 1988 The brewery describes this beer as:[...] Dark with a full, ivory-colored head. It has a fruity aroma, full of complex flavours and excells because of its long bittersweet finish with a hoppy bite. (10,0% ABV) Worldwide seen as one of the best beers in the world. It's a very balanced beer, with a full-bodied taste and a perfect equilibrium between malty, bitter and sweet. One of the original recipes from the days of license-brewing for the Trappist monks of Westvleteren.*Alternates: Trappistes Rochefort 10 - Brasserie de Rochefort; Three Philosophers - Brewery OmmegangGerman HefeweizenWeihenstephaner Hefeweissbier - Bayerische Staatsbrauerei Weihenstephan (Germany)The brewery describes this beer as:Our golden-yellow wheat beer, with its fine-poured white foam, smells of cloves and impresses consumers with its refreshing banana flavour. It is full bodied and with a smooth yeast taste. To be enjoyed at any time,goes excellently with fish and seafood, with spicy cheese and especially with the traditional Bavarian veal sausage. Brewed according to our centuries-old brewing tradition on the Weihenstephan hill.*Alternate: Franziskaner Hefe-Weisse - Spaten-Franziskaner-BruRussian Imperial StoutSamuel Smith's Imperial Stout - Samuel Smith Old Brewery Tadcaster (England, United Kingdom)Image via Olutarvio: Samuel Smith Imperial Stout The brewery describes this beer as: This distinctive type of beer was originally brewed to withstand the abuses of shipping in foul weather to Imperial Russia. It was a favourite of Russian nobility whose taste for the finest food and drink was world famous.A rich flavourful brew; deep chocolate in colour with a roasted barley nose and flavour that is a complexity of malt, hops, alcohol and yeast. Fermented in stone Yorkshire squares.  *Alternates: Old Rasputin Russian Imperial Stout - North Coast Brewing Co.; Oak Aged Yeti Imperial Stout - Great Divide Brewing CompanyCzech PilsenerPiercing Pils - Dogfish Head Brewery (Delaware, United States)Image via Reinventing Lagers The brewery describes this beer as:A Perry-Pils hybrid, Piercing Pils is a Czech Style Pilsner brewed with a White Pear Tea and Pear juice. Both