 Depending on the piece, indeterminacy and improvisation can be the same thing, however are not always. To clarify it is necessary to look at how these terms are typically defined. According to the indeterminate music entry in The Oxford Companion to Music, [...] the composer has to some degree relinquished control, perhaps by leaving some aspects to chance or to the performer's decision. All music falls within this definition, since musical notation, however detailed, can never prescribe a performance with complete precision; but the term is normally reserved for cases of a conscious abstention from creative choice. The entry goes on to describe various forms of indeterminacy. Several definitions make comparisons with aleatory, but specially the principle by which a decision of the performer of a composition replaces a decision of the composer. Aleatory seems to be a shared component between the two concepts, appearing as one of the Grove Music Online's definitions of improvisation: Aleatory or indeterminate features of modern works are of an improvisatory nature. Within the same entry, improvisation is also stated to be [any] performance according to the inventive whim of the moment, i.e. without a written or printed score, and not from memory. This point of extemporaneousness, without preparation is one of the key distinctions often drawn between works of improvisation and others of indeterminacy. Returning to The Oxford Companion to Music, the improvisation entry further emphasizes this detail:The implication is that improvisation is the freest kind of creative activity, in which spontaneity and lack of forethought displace the long and often tortuous processes which compositional acts are traditionally assumed to involve, as well as displacing the painstaking learning and processing of a printed text which performance normally presumes.Here are some situations to illustrate cases of difference between the two terms before examining the Coleman, Lewis, Zorn, and Riley works. It 	is considered strictly indeterminate music if the composer 	relinquished creative control to a process of composition, though 	still fully notating the results, and the performer is not given any 	special indication regarding interpretation. The 	Oxford Companion to Music's 	indeterminate music entry focuses on techniques used by John 	Cage, such as determining compositional choices by tossing coins, or 	by placing notes on physical imperfections in the manuscript paper, 	by tracing musical patterns from star maps, and so on. During a 	performance there are no extemporaneous compositional decisions 	being made by the musician, and thus, no improvisation takes place.Another 	case for strict indeterminacy would be if the composer relinquished 	creative control over an parameter of the music to the performer, 	but the performer makes a decision about the choice before playing 	(i.e. not extemporaneously). The examples of this The 	Oxford Companion to Music	provides include the works of Lutosawski and Henze where certain 	passages may have the performer repeat a fragment an indefinite 	number of times or choose a rhythm for a given set of pitches. 	Another option is where composers present fixed material which may 	be played in alternative sequences. For instance, in the Third 	Piano Sonata	(19557) Boulez allows the player to decide the order of 	movements, and of fragments within them, to omit certain passages, 	to choose between alternative tempos and dynamics, and so on.[Image via Ornette Coleman - Free Jazz]Free Jazz (1960)  Ornette ColemanIn the article Pitch-Class Transformation in Free Jazz author Steven Block traces the musical sub-genre of free jazz back to this landmark album of the same title. He goes on to call this a realization of Coleman's ideas about freedom in music to their fullest extent. Likewise, Jari Perkimki, in his thesis Lennie and Ornette: Searching for Freedom in Improvisation, describes Free Jazz, as one of Coleman's most radical, forceful and occasionally chaotic, in part due to the two pianoless quartets it employed improvising simultaneously. The 36-minute improvisation constituting the album focuses on, as Block puts it, nontonal material without the benefit of a fixed meter or fixed entries of the ensemble. Therefore, the lack of fixed entries could be considered a indeterminate aspect of the piece as a composition. Nevertheless, Free Jazz both as a recording and as a style is primarily concerned with improvisation, particularly improvisation no longer based on chord changes.[Image via Trummerflora Presents Spring Reverb 2007]Voyager  George LewisThe divide between indeterminacy and improvisation becomes quite murky with Voyager, a nonhierarchical, interactive musical environment that privileges improvisation according to the composer. In the article Too Many Notes: Computers, Complexity and Culture in Voyager, Lewis describes the roles of the composer and improviser throughout the work.Voyager (the program) analyzes aspects of an improviser's performance in real time, using that analysis to guide an automatic composing program that generates complex responses to the musicians playing. This implies a certain independence of action, and indeed, the program exhibits generative behavior independent of the human performer. The system is not an instrument, and therefore cannot be controlled by the performer.If you want to hear the program play in a certain way, you figure out how what you want to hear is organized, and you start playing that way yourself. Te result is two parallel streams of music generation that of the computer and that of the human, each informed by the others music-all improvisational, subject-subject model of discourse, rather than stimulus/response. The software that performs on this recording considers at least thirty different musical parameters as it works on accepting input and generating output. Te input information is passed to a number of analytic processes that deposit their outputs into a block of variables that amount to the state of the input at a given moment. Volume, sounding duration, octave, register, interval width, pitches used, volume range, frequency of silence, and articulation are checked and averaged over time.All of this is passed to the music-generating processes. Many of the same parameters found in the input are passed to the output, such as frequency of silence, volume, sounding duration, octave, register, interval width, volume range, and articulation. Other important musical choices are generated internally via random numbers. These processes provide much of the personality of the system, and include melody and harmony, orchestration, ornamentation, pacing, transposition, rhythm, and internal behavior options, such as whether and how to react to input, or how quickly to change parameter and which should be changed. In the absence of all input, all needed parameters are generated using random numbers.[] What the work is about is what improvisation is about: interaction and behavior as carriers for meaning. On this view, notes, timbres, melodies, durations, and the like are not ends in themselves. Embedded in them is a more complex, indirect, powerful signal that we must train ourselves to detect.If hard lines were to be drawn, the role of the composer in creating the Voyager software could be understood as indeterminate music. The composer is intentionally relinquishing some creative decision making, and transferring the role to the computer. In a way, this is a more modern take on generating pre-compositional material than John Cage's chance procedures. The composer is still in control of some parameters, as Lewis is writing the program and knows the possible ways that Voyager could react to input. He is also choosing the orchestral sound libraries, albeit the manner in which they are combined in textures is up to the software. Once a performance begins, the intention of the piece lies in improvisation, particularly the interplay between human and machine. Aspects such as the exact number of musicians, instrumentation, and duration of the piece as a whole are left as