 In order to determine why something is (or is not) musical, first music must be defined. Unfortunately, there are many definitions for music, often with varying degrees of exclusion or specificity. My preferred definition comes from The Grande dizionario della lingua italiana (ed. S. Battaglia, Turin, 1981) and roughly translates to-- The art of combining sounds and coordinating them in time and space, produced by the medium of voice or instruments and organized in many structures according to pitch level, duration, intensity, and timbre; science of sound subdivided into melody, harmony, and rhythm.[Image via Kinetype Ursonate]For Kurt Schwitters' monumental work Ursonate (1922-1932) an added level of complexity is brought to any analysis due to the many versions of the 'poem score' that exist, as well as the many equally valid performed interpretations. Schwitters created the first line in Ursonate from the opening of a poster poem by fellow Dadaist Raoul Hausmann, then expanded it and developed different notations to represent this line. Schwitters repeated the process of reordering novel yet convincing groups of syllables for subsequent lines, maintaining the poster poem score aesthetic. When performed, the result is perceived as an imaginary, nonrepresentational, aurally coherent language. However, is speaking this fictional language a form of music, or is speaking a faux-language strictly limited to communication? Despite the aural coherence, there is no syntactical meaning associated with these utterances. The syllables are moved around and the implied length of each line is selected in pure service of a musical structure, regardless of the content being for a totally verbal work. In the article Text-Sound Art: A Survey (Performing Arts Journal, Vol. 2, No. 2 Autumn, 1977, pp. 64) Moholy-Nagy translates the title of Schwitters' Ursonate to "primordial sonata," and goes on to describe it as--[...] a poem of thirty-five minutes duration, containing four movements, a prelude, and a cadenza in the fourth movement. The words do not exist; rather they might exist in any language; they have no logical only an emotional context; they affect the ear with their phonetic vibrations like music.Text-Sound Art: A Survey author Richard Kostelanetz also notes that in recent years, both Eberhard Blum, a German flutist of SUNY-Buffalo, and Peter Froehlich of the English Theatre at the University of Ottawa have performed Ursonate; each of them surpassing Schwitters' own partial recording. So then, if musicians are performing this piece in concerts it must be musical, right? The issue becomes whether it is inherently musical or whether it is translated into music by the performers. Here lies a philosophical debate that extends far beyond this specific instance, and concerns any instruction based art form. Does the essence of the art exist only when being performed? This is a non-issue for improvisational forms of expression, and yet ironically the highly indeterminate score for Ursonate firmly places it in a no-man's land of mediums. A strong case could be made to classify it as strictly a poem, a work of performance art, or a musical composition. What may tilt the scales of identification in favor of music is the intent by the composer during the writing process. Returning to The Grande dizionario della lingua italiana definition, there is deliberate and organized combining sounds. These are indeed coordinated in time and space, and produced by the medium of voice. The final part of the definition, structured according to pitch level, duration, intensity, and timbre; science of sound subdivided into melody, harmony, and rhythm, may be seen as an elaboration common in the application of sounds organized in time and space, but should not be understood as a restriction. Therefore, Ursonate is an uncommonly musical work whereby the score lays out the order of events to be produced by the voice, and the typical elements of pitches, rhythms, timbres, etc. are realized live after the fact by each performer independently.[Image via https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...]With Alvin Lucier's I am sitting in a room (1969) the text spoken by the performer in cleverly explains the musical qualities of the work itself--I am sitting in a room different from the one you are in now. I am recording the sound of my speaking voice and I am going to play it back into the room again and again until the resonant frequencies of the room reinforce themselves so that any semblance of my speech, with perhaps the exception of rhythm, is destroyed. What you will hear, then, are the natural resonant frequencies of the room articulated by speech. I regard this activity not so much as a demonstration of a physical fact, but more as a way to smooth out any irregularities my speech might have.Lucier, Alvin, and Douglas Simon. Chambers. Middletown, Conn: Wesleyan University Press, 1980. Musical score.Also in the preface for I am sitting in a room, Lucier instructs the performer to choose a room the musical qualities of which you would like to evoke. Like the Schwitters piece, Lucier's score is void of any typical musical instruction or standardized notation: no rhythms, no meters, no pitches. Similarly, the performer, though often a musician like with Ursonate, does not need to be. The first distinction between the two works is that one could now argue the text for I am sitting in a room is not even structured musically. Performers can, and have on various occasions, disregard the given text and make their own of any length and content. The piece works regardless of the text, albeit taking on a slightly different individual character for each interpretation. What transformed Ursonate into a musical performance was this human interpretation, however, for I am sitting in a room it is the opposite and the most musical qualities are attributed to the non-human electronic transformations. These transformations of speech into more perceivable music parameters are made possible by the physical properties of each acoustical space. Brandon LaBelle outlines the process in his book Background Noise: Perspectives on Sound Art:By replaying the recording of his voice back into a room, rerecording and playing back, repeating the process, the work develops into an accentuation of acoustic space whereby the sound source (voice) loses its original shape through larger conversational interaction in which the voice makes apparent the surrounding architecture through its disembodied reproduction. Over the course of the work's process, the original recording dissolves into a long, moving tone, punctuated, as Lucier points out, by rhythm alone  for we can still make out the general impression of the original spoken text: its inflected edges, the moments of pause, and Lucier's stutter. What we hear, then, is phenomenal in so far as space is articulated by sound, yet imbued with an uncertain psychological imperative, for as Lucier's voice states, the work is a process through which any speech impediment (in this case, his stuttering) may smooth out. It therefore appears that ambiguity is a key component in whether or not something is musical. Schwitters and Lucier approach ambiguity from opposite directions, despite the surface similarities in their text based compositions. For Schwitters ambiguity in syntactic meaning is essential to the construction of the text, and adheres to the first half of the music definition (organizing sounds in time and space). For Lucier ambiguity is achieved little by little in the composition's trajectory toward the second half of the music definition (gaining more traditional melody, timbre, harmony, and rhythm through the loss of speech). The room functions as a complex filter, which according to Aden Evens in Sound Ideas: Music, Machines, and Experience, accentuates some bands of energy, dampens others, and alternates the phase (time shift) and the pitch (frequency shift) of any sound caught in its space. Lastly, in the album notes to the 1990 recording I Am Sitting in a Room: For Voice on Tape (Lovely Music) Nicholas Collins emphasizes this point of equating increases in syntactic ambiguity with increasing in musicality, stating:By the end we cannot distinguish where one word ends and another begins; the text is completely unintelligible. What was once a familiar word has become a whistled three-note motif; what was once a simple declarative sentence has become a curiously tonal melodic fragment; what was once a paragraph of unaffected prose has become music. Somehow, somewhere in the course of 40 minutes of mean of what we've been listening to has slipped from the domain of language to that of harmony.