 Depending on the piece, indeterminacy and improvisation can be the same thing, however are not always. To clarify it is necessary to look at how these terms are typically defined. According to the indeterminate music entry in The Oxford Companion to Music, [...] the composer has to some degree relinquished control, perhaps by leaving some aspects to chance or to the performer's decision. All music falls within this definition, since musical notation, however detailed, can never prescribe a performance with complete precision; but the term is normally reserved for cases of a conscious abstention from creative choice. The entry goes on to describe various forms of indeterminacy. Several definitions make comparisons with aleatory, but specially the principle by which a decision of the performer of a composition replaces a decision of the composer. Aleatory seems to be a shared component between the two concepts, appearing as one of the Grove Music Online's definitions of improvisation: Aleatory or indeterminate features of modern works are of an improvisatory nature. Within the same entry, improvisation is also stated to be [any] performance according to the inventive whim of the moment, i.e. without a written or printed score, and not from memory. This point of extemporaneousness, without preparation is one of the key distinctions often drawn between works of improvisation and others of indeterminacy. Returning to The Oxford Companion to Music, the improvisation entry further emphasizes this detail:The implication is that improvisation is the freest kind of creative activity, in which spontaneity and lack of forethought displace the long and often tortuous processes which compositional acts are traditionally assumed to involve, as well as displacing the painstaking learning and processing of a printed text which performance normally presumes.Here are some situations to illustrate cases of difference between the two terms before examining the Coleman, Lewis, Zorn, and Riley works. It 	is considered strictly indeterminate music if the composer 	relinquished creative control to a process of composition, though 	still fully notating the results, and the performer is not given any 	special indication regarding interpretation. The 	Oxford Companion to Music's 	indeterminate music entry focuses on techniques used by John 	Cage, such as determining compositional choices by tossing coins, or 	by placing notes on physical imperfections in the manuscript paper, 	by tracing musical patterns from star maps, and so on. During a 	performance there are no extemporaneous compositional decisions 	being made by the musician, and thus, no improvisation takes place.Another 	case for strict indeterminacy would be if the composer relinquished 	creative control over an parameter of the music to the performer, 	but the performer makes a decision about the choice before playing 	(i.e. not extemporaneously). The examples of this The 	Oxford Companion to Music	provides include the works of Lutosawski and Henze where certain 	passages may have the performer repeat a fragment an indefinite 	number of times or choose a rhythm for a given set of pitches. 	Another option is where composers present fixed material which may 	be played in alternative sequences. For instance, in the Third 	Piano Sonata	(19557) Boulez allows the player to decide the order of 	movements, and of fragments within them, to omit certain passages, 	to choose between alternative tempos and dynamics, and so on.[Image via Ornette Coleman - Free Jazz]Free Jazz (1960)  Ornette ColemanIn the article Pitch-Class Transformation in Free Jazz author Steven Block traces the musical sub-genre of free jazz back to this landmark album of the same title. He goes on to call this a realization of Coleman's ideas about freedom in music to their fullest extent. Likewise, Jari Perkimki, in his thesis Lennie and Ornette: Searching for Freedom in Improvisation, describes Free Jazz, as one of Coleman's most radical, forceful and occasionally chaotic, in part due to the two pianoless quartets it employed improvising simultaneously. The 36-minute improvisation constituting the album focuses on, as Block puts it, nontonal material without the benefit of a fixed meter or fixed entries of the ensemble. Therefore, the lack of fixed entries could be considered a indeterminate aspect of the piece as a composition. Nevertheless, Free Jazz both as a recording and as a style is primarily concerned with improvisation, particularly improvisation no longer based on chord changes.[Image via Trummerflora Presents Spring Reverb 2007]Voyager  George LewisThe divide between indeterminacy and improvisation becomes quite murky with Voyager, a nonhierarchical, interactive musical environment that privileges improvisation according to the composer. In the article Too Many Notes: Computers, Complexity and Culture in Voyager, Lewis describes the roles of the composer and improviser throughout the work.Voyager (the program) analyzes aspects of an improviser's performance in real time, using that analysis to guide an automatic composing program that generates complex responses to the musicians playing. This implies a certain independence of action, and indeed, the program exhibits generative behavior independent of the human performer. The system is not an instrument, and therefore cannot be controlled by the performer.If you want to hear the program play in a certain way, you figure out how what you want to hear is organized, and you start playing that way yourself. Te result is two parallel streams of music generation that of the computer and that of the human, each informed by the others music-all improvisational, subject-subject model of discourse, rather than stimulus/response. The software that performs on this recording considers at least thirty different musical parameters as it works on accepting input and generating output. Te input information is passed to a number of analytic processes that deposit their outputs into a block of variables that amount to the state of the input at a given moment. Volume, sounding duration, octave, register, interval width, pitches used, volume range, frequency of silence, and articulation are checked and averaged over time.All of this is passed to the music-generating processes. Many of the same parameters found in the input are passed to the output, such as frequency of silence, volume, sounding duration, octave, register, interval width, volume range, and articulation. Other important musical choices are generated internally via random numbers. These processes provide much of the personality of the system, and include melody and harmony, orchestration, ornamentation, pacing, transposition, rhythm, and internal behavior options, such as whether and how to react to input, or how quickly to change parameter and which should be changed. In the absence of all input, all needed parameters are generated using random numbers.[] What the work is about is what improvisation is about: interaction and behavior as carriers for meaning. On this view, notes, timbres, melodies, durations, and the like are not ends in themselves. Embedded in them is a more complex, indirect, powerful signal that we must train ourselves to detect.If hard lines were to be drawn, the role of the composer in creating the Voyager software could be understood as indeterminate music. The composer is intentionally relinquishing some creative decision making, and transferring the role to the computer. In a way, this is a more modern take on generating pre-compositional material than John Cage's chance procedures. The composer is still in control of some parameters, as Lewis is writing the program and knows the possible ways that Voyager could react to input. He is also choosing the orchestral sound libraries, albeit the manner in which they are combined in textures is up to the software. Once a performance begins, the intention of the piece lies in improvisation, particularly the interplay between human and machine. Aspects such as the exact number of musicians, instrumentation, and duration of the piece as a whole are left as indeterminate.[Image via John Zorn Cobra, North Sea Jazz, Rotterdam / NL, 2009]Cobra (1984)  John ZornThe concept behind Cobra is to take the Ornette Coleman style of free improvisation and apply it to a larger ensemble through a game. There is no published score for Cobra. Rather, according to Dylan van der Schyff in the article The Free Improvisation Game: Performing John Zorn's Cobra, the piece is conveyed through a stack of cardboard cue cards with handles taped to the back of them. On the front of the cards are large letters (SX, CT, D, T, E, B, and so on), numbers (1,2,3, I, II, III) and other symbols. Schyff further details the game, stating:We were each given a sheet where the function of each cue card was described. The sheet contained more symbols in the form of hand gestures. We were also given headbands. As Zorn explained how the system of symbols and gestures worked I realized why the piece could not be published in the traditional way. For one thing, there is no proper scorethe piece consists of a set of events cued by symbols on the cards as well as by the catalog of hand gestures on the cue sheet; the content of each event is entirely dictated by the musicians performing it. Furthermore, there is no conductorthe initiation of events is brought about by the ensemble members themselves via the prompter who stands facing the ensemble (back to the audience) with the cue cards on a table in front of him; the ensemble is arranged in a semicircle facing the audience, the prompter and each other. In performance the prompter is bombarded by various cues from the ensemble, with each musician trying to get the prompter to display the symbol he or she wants to initiate the next event. And while it is impossible for the prompter to be completely impartial, it is largely for the musicians to decide which type of cue will provide the most interesting continuation of events.For example, one musician might hold one hand over his mouth while displaying four fingers with the other hand, meaning that he wants the sub crossfade event to take place. If the prompter notices him first the SX card will be displayed to the ensemble and those who are playing fade out while those who are not playing fade in. Another musician, hearing something she likes, might place one hand on her head and hold up one finger with the other hand cueing the prompter to display the 1 card. This card initiates the sound memory 1 event where musicians are to remember what they are playing at that moment and be able to immediately reproduce and repeat it for an extended period the next time the 1 card is displayed. A myriad of other possible events may be cued, such as duo and trio combinations or different types of endings; donning the headband signals that the musician has decided to temporarily do as they pleasea renegade action that may elicit reactionary responses from the ensemble.Like Voyager, where Cobra lies on the indeterminacy/improvisation continuum is hazy. Each of the cue cards is composed, despite the nontraditional text and symbolic notation. The conductor, or rather, 'prompter' is also the composer, therefore the order that the events take is not necessarily random, otherwise it would not be much of a game. Furthermore, the game is rehearsed. The rehearsal process likely solidifies certain musical responses to specific cue cards from each player. During the concert, what an individual performer is player may not be improvised, if he or she had galvanized that response throughout rehearsals. It is, however, nevertheless indeterminate because the order of events is not revealed and the resultant sounds from various orchestrations are constantly changing. Lastly, it could very well contain a great deal of improvisation, as the above article suggests. The 'prompter', though not making any sound, could effectively be improvising. The players have not rehearsed the transitions and exact timings, plus without written parts there is bound to be differences in performance even among those with solidified musical responses to each symbol. Aspects such as the exact number of musicians, instrumentation, and duration of the piece as a whole are left as indeterminate.[Image via 80 Jahre Terry Riley]In C (1964)  Terry Riley The balance between indeterminacy and improvisation with In C is similar to Cobra, only achieved through more traditional means. Unlike Cobra, there is a score, albeit laid out in an open, modular way. There is no conductor per se, however, the the straight 8th note high C's of the pulse for a piano or mallet instrument functions in a similar way to a conductor. Furthermore, the current (2005) edition of the score Riley publishes contains the following instructions:All performers play from the same page of 53 melodic patterns played in sequence. A group of about 35 creates a rich full overlay but interesting performances have been created with many more or many less.Patterns are to be played consecutively, with each performer having the freedom to determine how many times he or she will repeat each pattern before moving to the next. There is no fixed rule as to the number of repetitions a pattern may have, however, since performances normally average between 45 minutes and an hour and a half, it can be assumed that one would repeat each pattern somewhere between 45 seconds and a minute and 1/2 or longer.It is very important that performers listen very carefully to one another and this means to occasionally drop out and listen. As an ensemble, it is desirable to vary dynamics as well as create group crescendos and diminuendos.Each pattern can be played in unison or canonically in any alignment with itself or its neighboring patterns. One of the joys of playing IN C is the interaction of the players in polyrhythmic combinations that spontaneously arise among patterns. Some quite fantastic shapes will arise and disintegrate as the ensemble progresses through the piece.It is important not to hurry from pattern to pattern but to stay on a pattern long enough to interlock with other patterns. As the performance progresses, performers should stay within 2 or 3 patterns of each other. It is important not to race too far ahead or lag too far behind the main patterns sounding.[] The tempo is left to the discretion of the performers. Extremely fast is discouraged. When a performer is not playing, she should be conscious of the larger periodic composite accents that are sounding. When she reenters she must be aware of what affect [sic] the entrance will have on the overall flow.The ensemble should aim to merge into a unison at least once, but preferable [sic] often during the course of a performance. If all patterns seemed to be played too much in unison a player should try to offset his pattern by and [sic] 1/8th note or other value so as to create a feeling of shifting alignments. It is OK to transpose patterns. Take care when transposing, especially with patterns in running 16th notes. This can create a very muddy sound. Also all instruments should aim at a blend at [sic] no one instrument should stick out except momentarily. Rhythmic augmentation of patterns can be effective.Players may omit patterns that are too difficult or unsuitable for their instrument.Amplification of instruments is allowed to help achieve a balanced dynamics Electronic instruments are also welcome.This is more indeterminate than improvisation. The parameters of extemporaneousness include dynamics, octave, individual tempo, and repetition to say within 2-3 modules of the group. However, a number of these parameters are limited naturally due to each instrument's capabilities. The indeterminate parameters are plentiful. The composer relinquishes the above listing (dynamics, tempo, instrumentation, duration, repetition); yet retains pitch, order of events, and rhythms. What separates In C from the other works is the sense of group improvisation towards a common goal. Cobra is made up of a group of improvisers, but each player has his or her own vested interests. In C is more about working together to create a tapestry rather than competing against each other in a game.