 BackgroundFor 3 Quarter Tone Piano Pieces instructions for tuning are provided in the score preface and read:The quarter-tone relationship between the two pianos may be accomplished by one of two methods. Ives suggests that one piano be tuned a quarter-tone higher than the other. This procedure is not looked upon with favor by piano technicians. They prefer to take one piano down a quarter-tone. If this latter procedure is adopted, the part written to be played by the quarter-tone higher piano should be played by the piano at normal pitch, while the part written for the normal pitch piano should be taken by the piano tuned down a quarter-tone. In the article Ives' Quarter-Tone Impressions, author Howard Boatwright suggests that the composer's sensibilities regarding temperament were likely influenced early on by his father George Ives' quarter-tone machine. This device consisted of twenty-four (or more) violin strings that could be tuned in various ways. The elder Ives used it to pick out quarter-tone melodies and try to get his family to sing them. Later on in an effort to better train the ear to hear quarter-tone melodies, George Ives developed a way to sustain the strings using weights and violin bows, allowing for quarter-tone harmonies. Nevertheless, it is melodic lines available with this non-traditional temperament that stuck with the young Charles Ives. The composer stated in his writings that after the novelty of the quarter-tone machine wore off it was used as a means of punishment  though we got to like some of the tunes which kept close to the usual scale and had quarter-tone notes.What is perhaps even more telling when it comes to what Charles Ives hoped to gain through the use of microtonality is his prediction for the future. In Joseph Yasser's A Theory of Evolving Tonality (1932), the Ives passage reads: In some century to come, when school children will whistle popular tunes in quarter-tones  when the diatonic scale will be as obsolete as the pentatonic is now  then  boarderland experience may be both easily expressed and readily recognized. Again, the horizontal intervallic opportunities are given the primary focus. The function, as expressed by Ives in the term boarderland experience, may lie in the increased expressivity through greater tonal ambiguity. Microtonality, as seen in 3 Quarter Tones Piano Pieces through the 24 EDO (equal divisions of the octave), is understood to be more nuanced than chromaticism due to the availability of smaller melodic gradations. If one were to continue on with Ives' progression of expressivity via smaller divisions of the octave, pentatonic to diatonic to chromatic to quarter-tone, Georg Friedrich Haas' Limited Approximations would represent two notches further along the continuum; as it utilizes 1/6th and 1/12th tones in addition to quarter-tones. In the score preface Haas outlines how the 72 EDO is to be achieved through the piano temperament, stating (translated into English):1st piano +1/6Ton (raised a 1/6th tone)2nd piano +1/12Ton (raised a 1/12th tone)3rd piano Normalstimmung (normal tuning)4th piano -1/12Ton (lowered a 1/12th tone)5th piano -1/6Ton (lowered a 1/6th tone)6th piano -1/4Ton (lowered a quarter-tone)[Image viaDonaueschinger Musiktage entdecken das Streichquartett]The background to Limited Approximations takes a very different focus than Ives had with 3 Quarter Tone Pieces, emphasizing large scale gestures and (as the title implies) the approximation of overtones. Publisher Universal Edition has included statements from the composer regarding the composition on their website. Here Haas remarks that:limited approximations does not tell a story. As with all my compositions, there is also no formal development or traditional formal structure. Contrasting elements alternate with one another  moments of smoothness and friction. Pseudo-glissandi in the pianos arrive unexpectedly at overtone chords. Apparently stable constellations of intervals begin to falter as the twelfth-tones merge.The spectral, telescoping chords of the pianos are taken up by the orchestra, over and over again. In my early works I had to limit myself to a few basic tones, out of respect for what was practically realisable: in vain makes do with only the 12 tones of the traditionally tuned scale. Natures mortes uses only six different overtone chords, of which four are based on tones found in the traditionally tuned system. In limited approximations, thanks to the pianos, the whole world of sound is open to me.In his paper Some Theoretical Attributes of 72-tone Equal Temperament and Their Realization in Georg Friedrich Haas' limited approximations, Will Mason also details the significance of composer Ivan Wyschnegradsky's arc-en-ciel (1956) as a historical precursor in the six piano 72 EDO realm. Mason contextualizes Limited Approximations as, in part, a homage to Wyschnegradsky and mentions Haas' use of Wyschnegradskys method of modulation in quarter-tone pitch space and his idiosyncratic use of a chord of stacked fourths and tritones. Returning to the quotations via Universal Edition, Haas also cites the specific influence of Wyschnegradsky on Limited Approximations: At the end, a quotation from Ivan Vishnegradskys harmonies (against the relics of an overtone chord in the strings)  not with the clarity of his composition arc-en-ciel (I was able to premire this work for 6 pianos tuned in twelfth-tone intervals in 1988) but in the clouding over of twelfth-tone chords gliding gently towards the heavens. Even this approximation is only a limited one.Comparisons Wyschnegradsky may then be the link connecting Ives' 3 Quarter Tone Pieces with Haas' Limited Approximations