 It is difficult to state anything about Johannes Ockeghems life with certainty due to the lack of existing original accounts from that time. For instance, his date of birth, though postulated between 1410-1425, is still open to debate by early music scholars. It should then come as no surprise that little is known surrounding Ockeghems life while composing Missa Prolationum, even basic information like the date of the work. The era from the mid to late 15th century is commonly used as a compositional date, but nothing more specific has been confirmed. Nevertheless, one can surely speculate about possible influences given knowledge of the time, place, and musical culture.Ockeghem is grouped with the Franco-Flemish School of composers. These include the first generation (1420-1450) figures like Guillaume Dufay, Gilles Binchois, and Antoine Busnois; and the second generation" (1450-1485) contemporaries of Ockeghem including Orto, Compere, Prioris, Agricola, Caron, Faugues, Regis, and Tinctorus. Biographer Leeman L. Perkins states that while Ockeghem may have begun his musical life as a choirboy training in Saint Ghislain, it is more probable he received most of his early education in the nearby Mons. Regardless, as a youth training as a chorister Ockeghem would have likely been familiar with the first generation of Franco-Flemish Composers, performing their works frequently.As Ockeghem matured in his musical abilities he was appointed to the court of Charles I, Duke of Bourbon, whose principal residence was in Moulins. According to Perkins, Ockeghem was listed first among the seven signer of the ducal chapel, preceded only by the premier chaplain and three priests, indicating that his performance skills were highly valued. When he then transitioned into composing masses his experiences performing such works from a young age must have informed his aesthetics and technique. Kenneth Kreitner points out the potential influence of these first generation composers in the paper Very Low ranges in the sacred music of Ockeghem and Tinctoris:Here for the last time in [Missa Prolationum] Ockeghem gives us the contrast, so characteristic of the first three movements, of slow harmonic rhythm and dense texture framing faster, more lightly scored harmonic and rhythmic activity. Such textural and rhythmic contrast seems almost archaistically reminiscent of the isorhythmic motets of Dunstable and Dufay.  Regarding the influence of his peers of this second generation, it is clear that there was an active practice of contemporary composers setting melodic passages of others within their works. Sometimes this was observed by taking a cantus firmus from one piece by one composer and re-contextualizing it in another piece by another composer. Perkins shows this was common for Ockeghem, and though it reveals a lot about the state of authorship during the era, it makes attribution in an absolute sense even more difficult. For instance, Perkins notes that the attribution to Ockeghem of Ut heremita solus is implied in Crtins Dploration; the work may have been Ockeghems reply to Busnoys In hydraulis. For Missa Prolationum Perkins goes so far as to assert that Ockeghem artfully concealed the execution of certain compositional materials in accordance with the principal aesthetic ideals of the period, as articulated, for example, by Tinctoris. Consequently, the unfamiliar features of Ockeghems style continue to pose problems for present analysis.Nevertheless, there has been a great deal