 [Image via MERZsonata] Kurt Schwitters' Ursonate exists as one most important early text performances works. Written between 1922 and 1932 in Hannover, Germany, Schwitters' efforts may be viewed as coming out of the Dadaist movement. Jaap Blonk, a frequent performer of Ursonate, notes in the September catalog for the exhibition Kurt Schwitters in Norway that Schwitters was refused by the Berlin Dadaists. Following this he started a one-man Dada group in Hannover called Merz. Then in 1919, after gaining a national reputation with the absurd love poem An Anna Blume, he made contact with fellow Dadaists such as Hans Arp and Raoul Hausmann. Though formally trained in the fine arts, Schwitters seems to have been influenced by literature and poetry throughout his life. Blonk points out that opening line to Ursonate (Fumms b w t z Uu, pgiff, kwii Ee) was taken from the two Plakatgedichte (Poster Poems) by Hausmann. Blonk also claims that Schwitters used phrases such as this to provoke audiences at literary salons, who expected traditional romantic poetry, by endlessly repeating them in many different voices. This German salon atmosphere relates to other potential influences, such as Sprechgesang. In the article Text-Sound Art: A Survey, author Richard Kostelanetz highlights the similarities between Ursonate and Arnold Schoenberg's use of Sprechgesang, stating that both may have been influenced by German cabaret singing, and Chinese and Korean opera. In these styles, as Kostelanetz puts it, the singing voice touches a note but does not sustain the pitch in the course of enunciating the word. In practice, this technique minimizes the importance of musical tone (and, thus, of melody) and, by contrast, emphasizes the word.The era from the late nineteen-teens through the early nineteen-thirties was quite a fertile time for text-sound works, with practitioners taking cues from the development of abstraction, or non-representational art. The writer Hugo Ball, himself a prominent practitioner, said in a 1917 lecture that painter and art theorist Wassily Kandinsky, in his book Der gelbe Klang (1912), "was the first to discover and apply the most abstract expression of sound in language, consisting of harmonized vowels and consonants." Throughout the article Kostelanetz mentions a number of other pieces as possible influences on Schwitters either predating or concurrent with Ursonate. For instance, the German poets Paul Scheerbart and Christian Morgenstern wrote "Kikakoku!//Ekoralaps!" in 1897 and "Das Grosse Lalula" in 1905 respectively. In terms of form, Ursonate has a structure similar to that of a classical sonata or symphony. It consists of four movements: Erster Teil ("First Part"), Largo, Scherzo and Presto. This Classical Era structure then shows a clear influence of the major composers of that time: Joseph Haydn, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and Ludwig van Beethoven, et al. Schwitters further references the Classical Era in relation to Ursonate by calling it a sonata in his concluding program note in the 1932 Merz publication. According to Nancy Perloff in the article Archives, Collections and Curatorship Schwitters Redesigned: A Post-war Ursonate from the Getty Archives, the composer states Listening to the sonata is better than reading it. This is why I like to perform my sonata in public.