 In order to determine why something is (or is not) musical, first music must be defined. Unfortunately, there are many definitions for music, often with varying degrees of exclusion or specificity. My preferred definition comes from The Grande dizionario della lingua italiana (ed. S. Battaglia, Turin, 1981) and roughly translates to-- The art of combining sounds and coordinating them in time and space, produced by the medium of voice or instruments and organized in many structures according to pitch level, duration, intensity, and timbre; science of sound subdivided into melody, harmony, and rhythm.[Image via Kinetype Ursonate]For Kurt Schwitters' monumental work Ursonate (1922-1932) an added level of complexity is brought to any analysis due to the many versions of the 'poem score' that exist, as well as the many equally valid performed interpretations. Schwitters created the first line in Ursonate from the opening of a poster poem by fellow Dadaist Raoul Hausmann, then expanded it and developed different notations to represent this line. Schwitters repeated the process of reordering novel yet convincing groups of syllables for subsequent lines, maintaining the poster poem score aesthetic. When performed, the result is perceived as an imaginary, nonrepresentational, aurally coherent language. However, is speaking this fictional language a form of music, or is speaking a faux-language strictly limited to communication? Despite the aural coherence, there is no syntactical meaning associated with these utterances. The syllables are moved around and the implied length of each line is selected in pure service of a musical structure, regardless of the content being for a totally verbal work. In the article Text-Sound Art: A Survey (Performing Arts Journal, Vol. 2, No. 2 Autumn, 1977, pp. 64) Moholy-Nagy translates the title of Schwitters' Ursonate to "primordial sonata," and goes on to describe it as--[...] a poem of thirty-five minutes duration, containing four movements, a prelude, and a cadenza in the fourth movement. The words do not exist; rather they might exist in any language; they have no logical only an emotional context; they affect the ear with their phonetic vibrations like music.Text-Sound Art: A Survey author Richard Kostelanetz also notes that in recent years, both Eberhard Blum, a German flutist of SUNY-Buffalo, and Peter Froehlich of the English Theatre at the University of Ottawa have performed Ursonate; each of them surpassing Schwitters' own partial recording. So then, if musicians are performing this piece in concerts it must be musical, right? The issue becomes whether it is inherently musical or whether it is translated into music by the performers. Here lies a philosophical debate that extends far beyond this specific instance, and concerns any instruction based art form. Does the essence of the art exist only when being performed? This is a non-issue for improvisational forms of expression, and yet ironically the highly indeterminate score for Ursonate firmly places it in a no-man's land of mediums. A strong case could be made to classify it as strictly a poem, a work of performance art, or a musical composition. What may tilt the scales of identification in favor of music is the intent by the composer during the writing process. Returning to The Grande dizionario della lingua italiana definition, there is deliberate and organized combining sounds. These are indeed coordinated in time and space, and produced by the medium of voice. The final part of the definition, structured according to pitch level, duration, intensity, and timbre; science of sound subdivided into melody, harmony, and rhythm, may be seen as an elaboration common in the application of sounds organized in time and space, but should not be understood as a restriction. Therefore, Ursonate is an uncommonly musical work whereby the score lays out the order of events to be produced by the voice, and the typical elements of pitches, rhythms, timbres, etc. are realized live after the fact by each performer independently.[Image via https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...]With Alvin Lucier's I am sitting in a room (1969) the text spoken by the performer in cleverly explains the musical qualities of the work itself--I am sitting in a room different from the one you are in now. I am recording the sound of my speaking