 Helmut Lachenmann's most well known teacher was Luigi Nono, who he first met in 1957 at the Darmstadt Ferienkurse fr Neue Musik. From 1958 to 1960 he studied with Nono in Venice. At the 2015 highSCORE Festival in Pavia (Italy) Lachenmann was the guest composer and during his lecture he described the influence Nono exerted during this formative period. According to Lachenmann, each lesson he would bring in drafts of what he was working on, and each time Nono would exclaim in frustration that it was too melodic. Or rather, he should abandon melodic lines altogether. For Nono the use, or even reference to melody was too strong an association with those in power during WWII, the "ruling class" who used music within the classical tradition as propaganda. Nono was an adamant supporter and member of the Italian Communist Part since 1952, and viewed any such obvious link to this tradition as a political statement. Thus, the passages that Lachenmann brought in were labelled "bourgeoisie" by Nono.Lachenmann claims that despite his best efforts to eliminate any clear melodies, when he would bring in the revisions Nono would still point out specific measures and, infuriated, repeat that it was bourgeoisie. After some time Lachenmann said that the music he would bring in was entirely void of typical melodies, and yet Nono would find a particular use of a half-step interval to be too bourgeoisie. The way that Lachenmann told this story during his 2015 lecture in Pavia made apparent this experience with Nono was traumatic, and at the same time far reaching in influence. In an attempt to invent what music could be through "emptying" what he already knows (Lachenmann, 2008), he found a new expressivity, a new beauty, which he problematizes in his essay The Beautiful in Music Today:Except for Luigi Nono, leading composers of yesterday have exhausted their resources  They are celebrating the comeback of the bourgeois concept of beauty  a form sickening to anyone who sees in art  or in beauty  more than just a masquerade (Lachenmann, 1980, p. 21).This new approach to expressivity was initially inspired by serialism, first of the Second Viennese School composers (Arnold Schoenberg, Alban Berg, Anton Webern), then the dominant postwar figures of the time (Pierre Boulez and Karlheinz Stockhausen). What serialism offered Lachenmann, according to biographer Ulrich Mosch, was "this concept of sound as the outcome and expression of abstract ideas of order." Another aspect of serialism, as practiced by Boulez and Stockhausen, which may have influenced Lachenmann was the possibility to give greater independence to the various musical characteristics (dynamics, pitches, rhythms, timbres, etc), with the composer calling this the "anatomy" of sound. Mosch points out that for Lachenmann those characteristics "denote the concrete situation: listening, you hear the conditions under which a sound or noise action is carried out, you hear what materials and energies are involved and what resistance is encountered."This concept of concrete listening marked a major turning point in his compositional output, with Pression being the first work where he uses what he calls musique concrte instrumentale. Lachenmanns musique concrte instrumentale was inspired by the technique and approach of French composer Pierre Schaeffers musique concrte coined in 1948. In the article Pression  a performance study, author Tanja Orning states that: [Musique] concrte took what was concrete (recorded sound) and subjected it to a process of abstraction. Schaeffers approach made the sound itself the point of departure by choosing real sounds, existing in the world, collecting, classifying and recording them and thus making them objets musicaux. From the core properties of concrete sounds, he would then build structures into a work, thus reversing the traditional process of composition.It was Lachenmann's desire to move this abstraction of real world sounds from recordings to live performance. He believed that this could only be accomplished through utilizing sounds, as Mosch puts it, "unused and hence uncontaminated in the past." Lastly, Lachenmann has spoken of composition as equivalent to building an instrument, and Mosch is quick to point out that "this is as true of his attitude to solo instruments as it is to his approach to ensembles or orchestras." During the 2015 highSCORE lecture Lachenmann used Morton Feldmans piece The Viola in my Life as an example, calling Pression "The Cello in my Life." Orning's assessment of Pression corroborates this ideal, as "the cello as the sound source we know is eliminated, so the cello as a traditional instrument with all its connotations and history is on one level erased through this compositional method."