 [Image via A Tribute to Fausto Romitelli] Trash TV Trance (2002) represents the intersection of a number of diverse streams of compositional thought. On the one hand there is the overarching aesthetic grounding of his work, which most would classify as modernist. Then there are the genres and subgenres he is, at various times, referencing. These range from the popular idioms of rock (metal, acid, psychedelic, etc) and electronica (often via sampling), to late twentieth century classical movements such as the theater of the absurd and Spectralism. Romitelli combines these, often using timbral saturation to fuse such disparate elements together. Regarding the popular music link in Trash TV Trance, it is difficult to ignore the likeness to certain timbres and electric guitar techniques pioneered by Jimi Hendrix. The defining feature of Hendrix's solo lead sound, oversatured distortion constantly on the brink of feedback, is shared here. Other characteristics borrowed from such performances as the Star Spangled Banner at Woodstock and Machine Gun at the Filmore East include a reliance of stomp-box effects pedals (wah-wah, chorus, etc), pick scraping the length of the string, and exaggerated bending/vibrato. In an interview between critic Joseph Dalto and Talea Ensemble's Alex Lipowski before a New York concert of Romitelli's works, Lipowski also makes several comparisons to Hendrix:He wants you to experience a sensory overload[...] It's often thick and dirty, really raw, like psychedelic rock would be[...] You can lose yourself in the music, because it's transcendental. So get ready for the Romitelli experience. Like the Jimi Hendrix experience, it will be radical and experimental and hopefully transformative.Along the same lines of hybridisation between contemporary classical music and more popular genres would be John Zorn, particularly his work with Naked City. Though that album was released over a decade before Romitelli completed Trash TV Trance, it is unclear how well Romitelli knew Zorn's music. Nevertheless, there is a common aesthetic of dense, loud passages verging on noise-music. In 2012, roughly eight years after Romitelli's untimely death, the Talea Ensemble released an album entirely of his music on Tzadik, the record company curated by John Zorn. Frank Zappa could have also influenced Romitelli for the same reasons. In a review of the book Oltre le periferie dellimpero. Omaggio a Fausto Romitelli, Nicol Palazzetti provides a possible musical relationship between these figures:By observing postwar music history and avant-gardes decline, Enrico Girardi points out Romitellis eccentricity as well as his strong relationship with XXth century aesthetics: in order to overcome the homogenisation and academicism of contemporary composers, Romitelli rescues the concepts