 [image via Georg Friedrich Haas] The clearest compositional influence seen in Georg Friedrich Haas' Limited Approximations (2010) is Ivan Wyschnegradsky's arc-en-ciel (1956).Limited Approximations was premiered at Donaueschingen (Germany) 17 October 2010 and programmed in a concert immediately following a performance of  arc-en-ciel. In his paper Some Theoretical Attributes of 72-tone Equal Temperament and Their Realization in Georg Friedrich Haas' limited approximations, Will Mason also details the significance of composer Ivan Wyschnegradsky's arc-en-cielas a historical precursor in the six piano 72 EDO realm. Mason contextualizes Limited Approximations as, in part, a homage to Wyschnegradsky and mentions Haas' use of Wyschnegradskys method of modulation in quarter-tone pitch space and his idiosyncratic use of a chord of stacked fourths and tritones. In the program note (Universal Edition), Haas also cites the specific influence of Wyschnegradsky on Limited Approximations: At the end, a quotation from Ivan Vishnegradskys harmonies (against the relics of an overtone chord in the strings)  not with the clarity of his composition arc-en-ciel (I was able to premire this work for 6 pianos tuned in twelfth-tone intervals in 1988) but in the clouding over of twelfth-tone chords gliding gently towards the heavens. Even this approximation is only a limited one.Beyond the specifics of arc-en-ciel, Haas was also greatly influenced by the composer's musical philosophies, stating in Balint A. Varga's 2013 book Three Questions for Sixty-Five Composers: Ivan Wyschnegradsky's espaces non-octaviants (non-octaviating spaces) may not be a composition, merely a textural principle. Still  this principle has exerted a decisive influence on my musical thinking: networks of intervals which stretch over the entire audible space and extend (virtually) into the no longer audible realm (ultra- and infrasound). The octaves loses in the process the function it possessed up to that point in music history. The musics of Gyorgy Ligeti and Giacinto Scelsi are also audible influences in the composition of Limited Approximations. For Ligeti it is via the dense textures created in the orchestra by means of individual lines. Music critic Ung-Aang Talay also notes in the Bangkok Post the relationship between Haas' treatment of the orchestra and the 1960s, pieces like Atmospheres and Lontano that releases a dense bands of constantly shifting blocks of highly-spiced sound. What Ligeti has applied to the vastness of the symphony orchestra, Scelsi has applied to small chamber groups-- expressing the same sense of friction from melodies being compressed into incomparably small microtonal intervals. Haas further describes the influence of Scelsi in Three Questions for Sixty-Five Composers: [In] listening to a concert at the Graz Musikprotokoll festival that was devoted exclusively to his compositions and lasted several hours, I realized that he shaped sonority as such, purely as a sounding process, evolving instant by instant. Those apparently freely flowing spaces where the difference in the richness of beat in more or less neighboring tones creates a depth and an intensity which for me, up to that moment, had been unheard of, gripped me  I sensed the necessity to take up in my work where Scelsi had left off. The last major influence would be through figures composing with overtone chords in mind, both considered spectral (Tristan Murail) and not (Harry Partch, James Tenney, La Monte Young). Though often cited as a leading spectralist figure, Haas has stated in an interview (5 Questions for Georg Friedrich Haas) with Sam Reising on the website I CARE IF YOU LISTEN:I do not feel myself as a spectral composer. I use some chords, which have relationships to the harmonic series. I use them because I love them and because they sound great. But I never used spectral analyses [...] I trust my sensations. I try to find out how sound and colour and time and dynamics fit together. I do not have any system. I do not trust systems at all.Nevertheless, the ideas put forth by spectral composers have been important in Haas' own compositional practice. He has further explained the creative relationship he has with spectral concepts in the Three Questions for Sixty-Five Composers:Creative processes are sometimes set in train by verbal statements by composers which may have rather an intriguing relationship with the compositions to which they refer. I remember a fascinating lecture by Tristan Murail in Darmstadt: the orchestral work which was subsequently performed was markedly different from what I had expected on the strength of the lecture. I realized much later that the pieces which correspond to what I had expected from Murail would need to be composed by myself. Regarding Partch, Tenney, and Young, their use of the harmonies that deviate from the conventional tempered scale influenced Haas immensely. He was particularly interested in the twelfth-tones and even smaller intervals up to the quarter-tone when conceiving the six piano turnings in Limited Approximation. In an article with IRCAM Haas claims that the overtone chords, as crafted by Partch et al., contain these microtones do not sound wrong here but, rather, soft and melting, since they can be derived directly from the acoustic principles of instrumental sound.