 The underlying implication within the question, that Chopin and Mozart are similar composers for the piano, makes their combined characteristics difficult to find in any one modern composer. This is not a slight against contemporary composers who write for the piano. Rather, as I mentioned in a previous question (Who are composers similar in style to Frdric Chopin and Claude Debussy?), these example figures do not strike me to have much in common. Mozart was a central figure of the Classical Era and lived from 1756-1791. Chopin was a central figure of the Romantic Era and lived from 1810-1849. As you can see, their timelines do not overlap at all. Mozart was born in Salzburg, Austria and spent most of his professional career in Vienna, Austria. Chopin was born in Zelazowa Wola near Warsaw, Poland and spent most of his professional career in Paris, France.Mozart composed prolifically and produced works in every popular genre of his time and place. His operas and symphonies are likely his most well known, both today and during his lifetime. Chopin, though no slouch in output, composed far less and across substantially fewer genres. All his known works involve the piano, and only a few range beyond solo piano music, as either piano concertos, songs or chamber music.Chopin, during the last 18 years of his life, he gave only some 30 public performances, preferring the more intimate atmosphere of the salon. Mozart was far less reclusive with regards to public performance and was known to play piano (and occasionally violin/viola) in a number of concerti, solo recital, and chamber music contexts. Given their different music eras it would make sense that each composer had different identifying features in their piano music. Mozart epitomizes clarity of line and form. Chopin, often in an effort to gain greater expressiveness, blurred elements of traditional forms (ex. Fantaisie Impromptu Op 66). Mozart used ornamentation and virtuosic flairs in his piano writing, but again, stuck within the accepted practice of his time. Chopin utilized ornamentation heavily, often embellishing simple melodies on the piano with extensive chromatic grace note passages. Chopin's works often demand substantial physical technique from the pianist. Although both composers treated the instrument with great subtlety and athleticism, the finger independence is much greater in Chopin's show pieces.Nevertheless, there are a few commonalities. Both composers had musician parents, were considered child prodigies, toured Europe as soloists, and died relatively young (Mozart at age 35, Chopin at age 39). However more importantly both: (1) composed a huge catalog of works for the piano including technical studies, (2) had many of their piano compositions enter into the standard concert repertoire, and (3) were highly regarded performers on the instrument, premiering their own pieces. David Rakowski. He is most well-known for his set of 100 high-energy piano tudes, which are regularly performed worldwide. He is currently at work on a parallel set of 100 piano prludes, of which 46 have been written.It is often hard to tell if a living composer's works will enter into the repertoire. With that being said, here are a few contemporary pieces that seem to be quite popular with performers recently: Philip Glass - Metamorphosis (1989), John Adams - Phrygian Gates and China Gates (1977), Steve Reich - Piano Phase (1967), and Helmut Lachenmann - Guero (1970).In recent decades the composer-soloist has become increasingly rare, as the dedication required to be competitive as a professional composer and a concert pianist is substantial (and often with little overlap). Our modern age frequently encourages specialization over the notion of the Renaissance Man. Musically speaking, Mozart would be more in-line with the Renaissance Man ideal, whereas Chopin functioned more as a specialist. Here are a few contemporary figures who have been able to sustain parallel careers as composer and performers on the piano (in no particular order): Thomas Ads, Timo Andres, Frederic Rzewski, Eric Wubbels, Michael Hersch, William Bolcom, and Michael Finnissy.