  Alvin Lucier was a founding member of the Sonic Arts Union (1966-1976) with Robert Ashley, David Behrman, and Gordon Mumma. The element uniting the works by these individual composers, according to David Behrman, was the desire to create pieces "in which established techniques were thrown away and the nature of sound was dealt with from scratch" (Electronic and Experimental Music: Pioneers in Technology and Composition, 266). Therefore, it is likely that during this decade of working and performing together, the members of the Sonic Arts Union influenced each other. Lucier's I am sitting in a room is the perfect example of what Behrman describes as dealing with the nature of sound from scratch. Furthermore, in Background Noise, Robert Ashley's work The Wolfman is portrayed in several ways as a precursor to I am sitting in a room:The stutter in this case is a form of controlled feedback: it comes back to haunt Lucier, yet to a point of comfort and composition, where the composer may reside, take up home, within his own somatic tick, similar to Robert Ashley's work The Wolfman, from 1964, where voice unleashes a form of controlled and harmonic noise. Combining vocalization with audio feedback, as well as prepared audio tapes, The Wolfman creates a sonic journey in which electronic noise, as a total excess of timbral materiality, creates musical form: Ashley's vocalizations initiate waves of feedback that fill a space with itself, returning to the composer a harsh duet. Ashley's Wolfman operates as a doppleganger, an alter ego shadowing his own articulations, literally, a hybrid monster, part-human and part-animal. Such hybridity find another form in I am sitting in a room: here, architectural space and individual body merge, creating other forms of being and speaking (129).Also detailed in Electronic and Experimental Music: Pioneers in Technology and Composition was how the success that John Cage and David Tudor had in touring and designing their own equipment served as an early inspiration for the Sonic Arts Union (199-205). The influence of Cage, however, extends far beyond his time with the Sonic Arts Union. Lucier noted during his lecture at the 2015 Ostrava Days Composition Institute that Cage exerted a sort of cult of personality amongst the experimental music scene in the 1960s. Lucier expressed great admiration for Cage's compositional philosophies, particularly that he is not interested in forcing musical relationships, but wishes to just allow the natural phenomena to happen. Regarding the specific work I am sitting in a room, Lucier explained during the same lecture that the indeterminate aspects described in the preface (i.e. allowing for any text, in any language, repeated any number of times, in any space) was a direct result of Cage's influence. Lucier went so far as to say: It was a product of the times, it was trendy and pretentious to make prose scores contain indeterminate aspects [] it was a mistake. I believe Lucier's true intent for how the work should exist can be seen in the composer's own performances. He is not laissez faire about the resulting sound, as the open instructions may have one to believe. Instead, it is clear Lucier is looking for a certain, highly particular result. For example, if the room was too reverberant and the text was becoming unintelligible too quickly, Lucier would get up and move the microphone closer to the loudspeaker to mitigate the process. Despite the imprint of Cage's style on the conception for I am sitting in a room, Lucier states that Cage was highly critical of the work, disliking that the narration states what will happen in the composition. Cage continued by calling this descriptive text as composition and generalized that Lucier's music was cause and effect. Cage also thought that the text for I am sitting in a room was too personal and the location of the 1980 recording, the living room of Lucier's home in Middletown, CT, was again too personal. Background Noise also details how I am sitting in a room can also be heard as an extension of Minimalist music, as in the works of La Monte Young, in so far as it develops a sonic palette distinct from traditional notions of musicality through investigating physical phenomena, as in the activation of spatial resonance (128). Author Brandon LaBelle expounds on this influence, stating that:[...] Lucier infiltrates Young's Dream House, making it a haunted house, whereby phenomenological fact becomes psychological unease; psychoacoustical listening, a sonorous envelope pricked with desire. The liberated sound of Cage, and the phenomenal aesthetic of Minimalism, is on the surface of Lucier, yet what's underneath is the intersection of one man's voice with his immediate environment in which those whistling tones are neither just any or all of the resonances, but only those that are share by both the voice and the room (131-132).