 When it is time to really focus on my work I retreat from the outside world and make my desk space a sanctuary. I like Ellen's imagery of fences blocking out the zombie hordes, however, I always imagined myself like a medieval monk cloistered away in his cell. No distractions, just the manuscript in front of me and the abbey walls surrounding me.Unfortunately, this mindset does not encourage a daily routine amidst the busyness of modern life. For as much as I would like to sit down and create a little every day, I need substantial time to get into the right head space. Keeping on top of academics, e-mails, grant proposals, festival applications, composition competitions, and mundane housework never provides more than an hour or so of daily free time during the term. Thus, I usually have to wait until the breaks between the university semesters to get a lot of music written. As it happens, this "vacation" period often coincides with the 11th hour before a commission/deadline is due. The pressure is on, the concepts have been germinating in my consciousness (maybe subconscious too) for months now, and my focus is like a laser-beam. I do have one big advantage when it comes to this countdown-- I have been planning the piece and researching the musical context like my life depended on it for weeks beforehand. Even though the first note has not yet been scribbled on the first measure, all of the macro elements of the composition have been thoroughly conceived. So, when it is "go-time" I am truly in the zone and working at a rate of quite high productivity. A representative example of a writing day for me would look like this:08:00AM Wake up, use the restroom, then sit at my desk. Look over the work from yesterday. Usually the efforts that extended long into last night are good, but due to the sleep-deprived / autopilot state, need immediate edits.11:00AM Walk into the kitchen and make something to eat. This is always "Spartan mode" (ramen noodles, PB & J, cold cut sandwich, frozen pizza, etc), anything that can be prepared very quickly with minimal effort. Oddly, I am not that hungry; too wrapped up in thought I suppose.12:00 Noon Back to the desk. The edits to yesterday's additions are usually done by this point. I look over where I left off in the piece, consult my pages of pre-compositional planning, and begin to generate material for the next part. Also, depending on the circumstance, around this time I occasionally will turn the wifi off of my laptop. The many e-mail pings and other notifications will become a major distraction. 04:00PM I shift my operation over to the surface of the bed at this point, as sitting all day has made me uncomfortable. I spread all my pages out in front of me so that I can refer to any concept with just a quick glance up. 07:00PM Return to the kitchen. Again, Spartan mode. If I have leftovers from earlier in the day I will eat that. Otherwise, I will make either the same thing