 YouthGrowing up my younger brother was clearly the bookworm of the family. We would come back from the public library and he would have a stack of fresh literary sustenance several feet high. I did not understand why he spent all day reading book after book; there were times I remember exclaiming-- "He reads stuff he doesn't even like!" This was not an exaggeration; often within the first few pages it was clear if the novel matched his preferences, but if it failed he would continue to power through. Later I understood, it was not about whether he connected with what he was reading. Rather, he liked the act of reading. He was (and still is) a consumer of the written word.The preferred "literature" of my childhood was always about sports cars and rock music. One book, Guitar World Presents the 100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time!, sticks out in particular. The sections ranking the guitar players was fine, but what kept me up at night was the list of guitar solos. I took this as scripture. It never phased me that the list was simply the result of a reader's poll. This was a challenge. From the ages of 14-17 I had this text in tow whenever I traveled, reading and re-reading every detail about these guitar solos. Not only did I have the list memorized in order, but I sought out recordings and sheet music for each of these songs, learning how to play a large portion of the solos and riffs myself. Exposing myself to a variety of sub-genres and eras via this publication proved to be formative in my background as a creative person.As evidenced above, I have always had the makings of a specialist. Unfortunately, my early interests rarely fit into the literature classes at school. It felt like the curriculum was made up entirely of novels taking place in rural pre-1900 America. I grew up in a quite rural area myself and lived in a house surrounded by cornfields and soybean fields as far as the eye could see. Needless to say, I was less than enthusiastic about these mandatory books on frontier life. I knew first hand what living out in the country was like and these romanticized depictions not only bored me, but left me with a suspicion that I perhaps hated reading. During English classes I thought, if this is what novels are all about maybe reading is something I don't care for. This all changed my senior year in high school through British Literature. Every book required for that class I enjoyed. Themes of humanism and the chasing of intellectual pursuits were common among the works. The settings were frequently urban. I was hooked. From this year George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four, Christopher Marlowe's Doctor Faustus, Geoffrey Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales, and William Shakespeare's Macbeth all left a strong impression on me. It was also during this year that I realized my preference for absurdest humor. I read a lot by and about Douglas Adams, as well as the history of Monty Python. Furthermore, around the same period I was studying for the SAT's I remember connecting with A. J. Jacobs' memoir The Know-It-All.College (undergrad and master's years) My freshmen year in college I had enrolled in two comparative literature courses. The topics seemed to be based around various novels from across the world (all translated to English). I appreciated the analytical and critical aspects of pinning these texts against each other. Also during this time I dove into Dante Alighieri's Divine Comedy (Henry Wadsworth Longfellow trans.) and John Henry Newman's The Idea of a University. Soon after, my focus firmly settled on composition, and because I felt my peers already had such a strong background in classical music (many had attended high school programs like Juilliard Pre-College and the New England Conservatory Prep School), I immersed myself in the subject.Memoirs from major contemporary composers like Gunther Schuller's The Compleat Conductor and John Adams' Hallelujah Junction: Composing an American Life both helped inform what the history of my profession was like in America. As I progressed