 [image via John Zorn 60th Birthday, Jazz on 3 - BBC Radio 3] John Zorn's Snagglepuss is perhaps the epitome of polystylism amongst concert works in the late twentieth century. With polystylism, as utilized by Zorn, the influences are necessarily clear in order to provide the listener with a sense of what is being referenced. Furthermore, in Snagglepuss each stylistic outburst must be instantly recognizable, because in order to function as an outburst the durations are inherently quite short. Speed is a crucial factor for Zorn and in the 1998 book John Zorn: Itinerari Oltre Il Suono he said: I believe that in a technological situation like the present one, where we are exposed to thousands of stimuli and in which information moves faster and faster, it is necessary to keep up with these things: it is a way of life and of thinking and we have to come to terms with it.Unlike other post-modern compositions drawing upon many diverse sources ironically, Zorn's inclusion of each musical genre is out of genuine admiration. This admiration is evidenced in his prolific recording output, whereby over decades he has released albums focusing on each of the genres he then references in his polystylistic compositions. In the article Nine Aspects of Beauty Appropriation, Lindsay Vickery outlines how these outbursts constitute the form of the work:In the Naked City work Snagglepuss (1989) the band flips through 26 changes in the Space of 2 minutes and 14 seconds. Their performance takes in a minimum of 15 styles of ranging from Curtis Mayfield, to TV themes, Thrash and the visual instruction Drunk falls Downstairs. The players must use all of their skill to make live transitions that are both abrupt and smooth, contrasting but homogenous. They are taking the sample culture made possible through electronic manipulation and drawing it back into the human domain. Naked City celebrates a kind of Pop culture exuberance or Culture Jamming at its most virtuosic.To elaborate on Vickery's observations, other likely influences on Zorn during the creation of Snagglepuss include hardcore, film scores, and free jazz. Japanese vocalist Yamataka Eye contributed to the album Naked City, as well as a number of other Zorn projects. Eye's hardcore/noise specialization brought a raw intensity that hits a nerve with the listener in a way purely instrumental music is unable to due to the inextricable humanity of the voice. In the 2002 documentary A Bookshelf On Top of the Sky: 12 Stories About John Zorn it is clear from the performances and interviews that Zorn had gone through a phase he describes as obsessed with the hardcore genre. In the album notes, Zorn gives special thanks Japanese-US-UK Hardcore Triangle, Extreme Noise Terror, Agnostic Front, and Napalm Death.Similarly, Zorn has expressed a parallel obsession with cinema, particularly the films of Jean Luc Godard and the French New Wave. Earlier Zorn albums confront this influence in more detail such as Godard (1985), as well as other cinematic genres like the spaghetti western via reworking Ennio Morricone's The Big Gundown. The presence of film music in the album Naked City