 [Image via Jonathan Harvey's Glasgow Trilogy, Hear and Now - BBC Radio 3]At the core of Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco is the role of the great tenor bell at Winchester Cathedral. Not only is the recording of this bell tolling a primary sound source throughout the work but it also provides the text for the title and lyrics. The inscription on the bells exterior reads: Horas Avolantes Numero, Mortuos Plango: Vivos ad Preces Voco [I count the fleeting hours, I lament the dead: the living I call to prayer]. Composer Jonathan Harvey took the bells harmonic spectrum and examined it with the fast Fourier transform (FFT) program at IRCAM. The influence of the specific technology used, especially during these early days of computer music analysis, should not be overlooked. In this case Harvey, with the technical assistance of Stanley Haynes, realized the synthetic bell modulations and transformations on IRCAMs version of MusicV (originally created by Max Mathews in 1969).The second sound source, that of the choristers Latin singing, was then also synthesized from a live recording; however, this time using the program CHANT developed by Gerald Bennett and Xavier Rodet. The boy soprano heard on the recording was Harveys son Dominic who, according to author Mario Sibilia in his article Analysis and Listening Score of Mortuos plango, Vivos voco, was a chorister at Winchester Cathedral from 1975 to 1980 (the year Harvey received this commission by the Centre George Pompidou in Paris). The intangible connection a father has with the sound of his son is so personal that it had to have influenced him regarding how the vocal line was then treated. Furthermore, there is a strangely ironic aspect to what Harvey must have experienced; listening to words lamenting the dead coming from his still very much alive son, only to then gradually pull at the musical nature of the sons song through electronic manipulations until it has lost its human characteristics, effectively becoming dead.Scholars often go into great detail unpacking the electronic means undertaken by Harvey to create Mortuos plango, and rightly so given its place as a pioneering work of computer music. However, what is underplayed is the influence of the Anglican choral tradition. Though his later works reference a certain non-specific spirituality, Harvey spent many of his most formative years studying music at St. Johns College, University of Cambridge. The choir at St. Johns is among the most famous in England and has sung daily services in the College Chapel since the 1670s. Even if Harvey did not frequently attend chapel, it would be extremely unlikely that he would have been able to avoid its influence. In addition to Evensong six days a week, they also perform at a number of other well-known events throughout the academic year and have been recording extensively on the Decca/Argo label since the 1950s.Returning to procedure, though one can point to the specific software Harvey used to carry out the spectral analyses; this practice of composing based on source material overtones also implies the influence of Gerard Grisey and Tristan Murail. Both Grisey and Murail were in residence at IRCAM throughout the 1970s and developed spectral techniques with the Ensemble lItineraire. As the term spectralism was only coined by Hughes Dufourt one year prior to Mortuos plango and first published in an article one year after the completion of Mortuos plango, it is perhaps best to think of Harveys efforts as proto-spectral or belonging to the late 1970s  early 1980s spectral zeitgeist at IRCAM. In a similar vein, Harveys composition shows a certain dialogue with the acousmatic listening and musique concrete works of Pierre Schaeffer. With Schaeffer the goal was often abstraction of sounds recorded from the natural worlds, divorcing the received meaning from its original source. Harvey clearly presents both his sound sources in their raw, highly recognizable form, but over the course of the piece gradually abstracts them by moving along a real vs. synthesized continuum.Lastly, there is the lineage of tape music leading up to Mortuos plango. After earning a PhD at Cambridge Harvey studied with Milton Babbitt at Princeton University on a Harkness Fellowship. While there, in addition to the works of Babbitt, Otto Luening, and Vladimir Ussachevsky using the Columbia-Princeton Studios, he would have been aware of the electro-acoustic compositions of Karlheinz Stockhausen. According to biographer Arnold Whittall:During the mid1960s [Harvey] became increasingly aware of new attitudes to time and space in the music of Stockhausen (on whom he published a monograph in 1975), and a period of study at Princeton with Babbitt strengthened his concern with posttonal compositional systems as well as with the possibilities of electroacoustic techniques. [] But for Harvey, like Stockhausen, the best way to explore the special character of the single note was by means of electroacoustics, and as an early recruit to IRCAM he found Boulezs Paris Institute a stimulating environment for the development of his technical and aesthetic predispositions.One could imagine that Stockhausens Gesang der Jnglinge ("Song of the Youths"), often called the first masterpiece of electronic music, was of particular influence while writing Mortuos plango. Realized in 195556 at the Westdeutscher Rundfunk studio in Cologne, Gesang der Jnglinge notably features vocals supplied by 12-year-old Josef Protschka. The inclusion and innocence implied by the purity of a young boys voice creates a precedent with Gesang der Jnglinge that Mortuos plango follows, immediately drawing a comparison between the works.