 [Image via Acousmata]In 1971 Lewis, a Chicago native, became a member of the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians (AACM), a non-profit organization founded in Chicago. The AACM was formed in May 1965 by a group of musicians centered on pianist Muhal Richard Abrams who had organized an Experimental Band since 1962. In addition to Abrams, other early members that Lewis would have frequently performed/improvised with included (in no particular order): Wadada Leo Smith, trumpet; Leroy Jenkins, violin; Anthony Braxton, saxophone/clarinet; Roscoe Mitchell, saxophone; and Douglas Ewart, winds; among others. Ewart recorded the album Homage to Charles Parker in 1979 with Lewis. Though it is unclear if and how the music of Charlie Parker shaped Lewis' conception of Voyager, it is likely that Parker's idiosyncrasies as a player influenced Lewis' practice, phrasing, and pacing on the trombone. This long-time involvement with the AACM makes up one of Lewis' core identities as a musician, and in May of 2008 Lewis published a book about the organization through the University of Chicago Press entitled A Power Stronger Than Itself: The Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians.The avant garde jazz aesthetic throughout much of the AACM concerts could have further informed versions of Voyager. The most famous recording, the solo takes with Lewis and Mitchell for the 1993 Avant release, is very much in the avant garde jazz / free improvisation vein. This aesthetic predisposition is not necessarily inherent to the construction of Voyager, but has nevertheless become commonplace with its performances. According to Lewis the Voyager program analyzes aspects of an improvisors performance in real time then generates complex responses to the musicians playing. If you want to hear the program play in a certain way, you figure out how what you want to hear is organized, and you start playing that way yourself. If one could play in any style to try and elicit a like response from the program, why is the avant garde jazz approach de facto in performances of Voyager? A musician could just as well freely improvise within a hard rock, blues, bluegrass, folk, etc. idiom and still work within the intended construct of Voyager. It is the decades of shared influence among the members of the AACM, who do maintain particular aesthetic leaning on their chosen instruments, that has, intentionally or not, established a precedent for how Voyager should sound. With the composer also existing as frequent performer of the work, his aesthetic decisions further emphasized as authoritative, despite the lack of formal instruction or restriction when approaching a new improvisation. The aspect of creating a software that responds in a musical way can be seen as part of the instrument building tradition with the AACM, and later the Art Ensemble of Chicago (AEC). It was standard for members of these groups to take on many creative roles-- composer, multi-instrumentalist, improvisor, bandleader, inventor, craftsman, and even programmer. In the artistic communities of the AACM and AEC where designing new objects of interaction (what they termed "little instruments") from bicycle horns, bells, birthday party noisemakers, wind chimes, and a vast array of percussion instruments (such as found objects) was ubiquitous, it then comes as little surprise that Lewis took such ingenuity to the next logical step with Voyager through the use of computers. Not only can this environment of instrument building be seen as an influence, but even the technology itself plays an important role in the development of Voyager. Lewis has stated that the Voyager project was started during 1985-86, while he was composer-in-residence at the Studio voor Elektro-Instrumentale Muziekin Amsterdam. The staff of STEIM at the time included Michel Waisvisz, Nico Bes, Gabrie Lantinga, and Misha Mengelberg. It is unclear how much interaction Lewis had with these individuals on a creative basis, though it is plausible that certain aspects of the program could have been due to their influence. Early versions ofVoyager were originally developed for and programmed on the Yamaha CX-5 computer by Lewis, using a special version of FIG-Forth developed for that underpowered machine by STEIMs technical director, Joel Ryan. As more advanced hardware and software became available the requirements to stage a performance of Voyager were naturally influenced by these new breakthroughs. Lewis has this timeline of technological progress on the Voyager project--The first complete versions of Voyager for the more powerful Atari ST series of computers, were finished in 1987 in New York City, as usual under extreme budgetary constraints. This version was written in Mach 2 Forth-83. Both of these early versions used a simple realtime scheduler of my own design. The versions of the Voyager software heard on this recording was designed and written by George E. Lewis, using Forthmacs, a version of Forth-83 written by Mitch Bradley, and MacMox 1.4, a real-time scheduler and MIDI parsing program built by Danile J. Scheidt. Some Forth words designed by Phil Burk for use with the Hierarchical Music Specification Language were also used in this version of Voyager; I hope he wont mind.Software for the session ran on a single Apple Macintosh Powerbook; both the 145 and 180 models were successfully employed. A Sony lavalier microphone was used to capture the sound of the instruments. An IVL model 4000 Pitchrider was used to convert this audio to a form that the software could process. The instruments played by the software was an Emu Proteus/2 sample player and synthesizer. The software has 12 instrumental channels at its disposal at any one time. Any one of the 45 Proteus instruments (timbres) that I chose for the recording can be selected by any instrumental channel.Lastly, other likely influences during the composition of Voyager include pianist Cecil Taylor and composer/saxophonist John Zorn. Taylor's work in the 1960s to expand the landscape of jazz into regions of increasing complexity and freer improvisations, as seen with Unit Structures (1966), contribute to the compositional style and musical language Lewis would later explore in Voyager. Both Chicagoans, Taylor and Lewis would go on to perform together in a number of contexts, perhaps most notably through their shared involvement with AEC. During the 2015 Ostrava Days Composition Institute Lewis mentioned how he had played Cobra, the game piece, with John Zorn. Cobra predates Voyager by a few years, and there are game-like elements in Voyager such as the performer trying to figure out how what you want to hear is organized, and you start playing that way yourself.