 In order to analyze different uses of timbral saturation between various works it is necessary to understand the term itself. The concept of timbral saturation could be compared to chromatic saturation. The dodecaphonic works in the early-middle 20th century relied heavily on the saturation of the octave both compositionally and aesthetically, ensuring the appearance of all twelve pitch-classes within a segment of music. This idea of utilizing all available pitches at the same is analogous to the treatment of timbre. In the article Raphal Cendo, Registre des lumires, author Nathan Cornelius outlines saturation (seen in Cendo's works) as-- [] overloading the sonic environment so that unforeseen qualities emerge in it, like overloading a microphone with a signal so strong that it generates distortion or feedback. This process can take many forms, such as dense unsynchronized textures, radical extended techniques, or the buildup of contrasting timbres (tone colors).Timbral saturation is then described as-- [] stretching listeners ability to perceive many diverse sound qualities at once. At any given moment, ones attention might rapidly be shifting from the violinists playing col legno, to the pianist hammering on the strings with felt beaters, to the trombonist playing multiphonics with a double reed, to the choir stage-whispering into their microphones.This contextualizing of timbral saturation works well, as exemplified with the Cendo piece, when applied to chamber ensembles or larger groups. However, the Lachenmann, Hendrix, and Romitelli pieces are all focusing on the soloist. Nevertheless, the same principles will be examined; focusing on the sections where the instrumental tone is overloaded and unstable, simultaneously containing many different timbres or rapidly shifting between timbres. Most often this is realized in heavy distortion and, in the case of acoustic instruments, extreme pressure applied to a gesture to effectively distort the tone.Pression (1969)  Helmut LachenmannGiven the above definition, I am reluctant to believe that any of Pression qualifies as true timbral saturation. During the points of overpressure with the bow, the pitch content is not drown out by noise. Furthermore, there is a stability and consistency within the technique of overpressure. For every instance the same ratio of string pitch and scratch tone sound is achieved. There are sections highlighting a greater level of sonic ambiguity, however these (again) do not aim to encompass many different timbres concurrently or rapidly shift between timbres per gesture. Pression is a tour de force regarding all sorts of sounds possible on the instrument, though each timbre is approached in a manner to create a discrete, repeatable identity instead of a combine, opaque resultant. The points of indefinite or indeterminate pitch are also not saturated with sound, but rather characterized by thin, hollow, and airy textures from specific bowing (traditionally or otherwise) of the cello body and bridge. Lachenmann has written on this topic for Pression, stating:In the case of the beautiful, professional cello tone, the relationship of action and result is  as with all sounds considered beautiful in our society  particularly obscured regarding effort and resistance, whereas with the extreme pressure of the fingertips sliding along the wood of the bow the relationship is much more complicated: an almost inaudible result speaks, as it were, of a maximum effort.Helmut Lachenmann, Einfhrungstext zu Pression in Musik als existentielle Erfahrung, p. 381.[Image via Page on youtube.com]Star Spangled Banner (Woodstock 1969)  Jimi Hendrix (arr.)This inclusion in the conversation about timbral saturation among soloists is unique in a number of ways. First, the soloist is performing within the context of a band of musicians, rather than alone onstage. In terms of how extreme sonic textures are received by an audience, employing these intense sounds is more accessible when supported (even if only minimally) by other instruments. This is a matter of contextualization,