 [Image via A Tribute to Fausto Romitelli] Trash TV Trance (2002) represents the intersection of a number of diverse streams of compositional thought. On the one hand there is the overarching aesthetic grounding of his work, which most would classify as modernist. Then there are the genres and subgenres he is, at various times, referencing. These range from the popular idioms of rock (metal, acid, psychedelic, etc) and electronica (often via sampling), to late twentieth century classical movements such as the theater of the absurd and Spectralism. Romitelli combines these, often using timbral saturation to fuse such disparate elements together. Regarding the popular music link in Trash TV Trance, it is difficult to ignore the likeness to certain timbres and electric guitar techniques pioneered by Jimi Hendrix. The defining feature of Hendrix's solo lead sound, oversatured distortion constantly on the brink of feedback, is shared here. Other characteristics borrowed from such performances as the Star Spangled Banner at Woodstock and Machine Gun at the Filmore East include a reliance of stomp-box effects pedals (wah-wah, chorus, etc), pick scraping the length of the string, and exaggerated bending/vibrato. In an interview between critic Joseph Dalto and Talea Ensemble's Alex Lipowski before a New York concert of Romitelli's works, Lipowski also makes several comparisons to Hendrix:He wants you to experience a sensory overload[...] It's often thick and dirty, really raw, like psychedelic rock would be[...] You can lose yourself in the music, because it's transcendental. So get ready for the Romitelli experience. Like the Jimi Hendrix experience, it will be radical and experimental and hopefully transformative.Along the same lines of hybridisation between contemporary classical music and more popular genres would be John Zorn, particularly his work with Naked City. Though that album was released over a decade before Romitelli completed Trash TV Trance, it is unclear how well Romitelli knew Zorn's music. Nevertheless, there is a common aesthetic of dense, loud passages verging on noise-music. In 2012, roughly eight years after Romitelli's untimely death, the Talea Ensemble released an album entirely of his music on Tzadik, the record company curated by John Zorn. Frank Zappa could have also influenced Romitelli for the same reasons. In a review of the book Oltre le periferie dellimpero. Omaggio a Fausto Romitelli, Nicol Palazzetti provides a possible musical relationship between these figures:By observing postwar music history and avant-gardes decline, Enrico Girardi points out Romitellis eccentricity as well as his strong relationship with XXth century aesthetics: in order to overcome the homogenisation and academicism of contemporary composers, Romitelli rescues the concepts of commitment, authenticity and critique, as defined by the Italian musical koine of 1950s and 1960s (the so called Fase seconda). Silvia Vizzardelli and Marco Maria Tosolini respectively analyse the concepts of anamorphosis and fall in Romitellian poetics and the parallelism between Romitelli, Zappa and Hendrix.Moving past the shared technical roles of the soloist in Hendrix and Romitelli, there is a different reception of the guitarist by the audience in Trash TV Trance. Apart from the typical venue being a concert hall rather than a rock stage, with Hendrix and Zappa the focus is on the artist as a quasi cult of personality to convey musical drama. When Zorn is performing with Naked City the focus is similar. However, with Romitelli the musicians are ideally existing as conduits for the drama to pass through. Regardless of how absurd their actions may be it is always about the act and not the performer himself/herself. In Trash TV Trance these actions include a circular motion using a drum stick to "bow" the strings on the neck of the instrument. In addition to the specific sound generated by this extended technique, a certain ritualistic quality akin to the fragile monodramas of Mauricio Kagel is created.Regarding Spectralism, after attending at the Accademia Chigiana in Siena and later at the Scuola Civica in Milan, Romitelli continued his studies at IRCAM in Paris. While taking part in IRCAM's Cursus program, he was a student of Grard Grisey and Hugues Dufourt, both considered principle figures in the history of Spectral music. According to reviewer Liam Cagney, Dufourt's composition Saturne (1979) impressed Romitelli strongly, and later he "forged a connection with the Parisian musical collective lItinraire, who would premiere several of Romitellis works."Lastly, the influence on Romitelli's use of saturation may be traced through Gyorgy Ligeti, Krzysztof Penderecki, Iannis Xenakis, Giacinto Scelsi, and Sonic Youth. In the 1960s saturation was seen in works like Ligeti's Lux Aeterna via "micropolyphony," Penderecki's Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima via "tone clusters," and Xenakis' Pithoprakta via "sound-cloud" textures. Though given different technical names, each of these composers is achieving the same sonic resultant, a saturation of the total chromatic through the motion of many independent lines. With the music of Scelsi, such as his String Quartet no.5, he is taking that same instrumental method to saturate a frequency band and compressing it to a much smaller interval, moving from chromatic or dodecaphonic activity to microtonal activity. This microtonal saturation when paired with the sort of raw, "dirty" guitar and amplifier hum/buzz native to a band like Sonic Youth results in the reoccurring gesture seen in the opening to Trash TV Trance.