 When it is time to really focus on my work I retreat from the outside world and make my desk space a sanctuary. I like Ellen's imagery of fences blocking out the zombie hordes, however, I always imagined myself like a medieval monk cloistered away in his cell. No distractions, just the manuscript in front of me and the abbey walls surrounding me.Unfortunately, this mindset does not encourage a daily routine amidst the busyness of modern life. For as much as I would like to sit down and create a little every day, I need substantial time to get into the right head space. Keeping on top of academics, e-mails, grant proposals, festival applications, composition competitions, and mundane housework never provides more than an hour or so of daily free time during the term. Thus, I usually have to wait until the breaks between the university semesters to get a lot of music written. As it happens, this "vacation" period often coincides with the 11th hour before a commission/deadline is due. The pressure is on, the concepts have been germinating in my consciousness (maybe subconscious too) for months now, and my focus is like a laser-beam. I do have one big advantage when it comes to this countdown-- I have been planning the piece and researching the musical context like my life depended on it for weeks beforehand. Even though the first note has not yet been scribbled on the first measure, all of the macro elements of the composition have been thoroughly conceived. So, when it is "go-time" I am truly in the zone and working at a rate of quite high productivity. A representative example of a writing day for me would look like this:08:00AM Wake up, use the restroom, then sit at my desk. Look over the work from yesterday. Usually the efforts that extended long into last night are good, but due to the sleep-deprived / autopilot state, need immediate edits.11:00AM Walk into the kitchen and make something to eat. This is always "Spartan mode" (ramen noodles, PB & J, cold cut sandwich, frozen pizza, etc), anything that can be prepared very quickly with minimal effort. Oddly, I am not that hungry; too wrapped up in thought I suppose.12:00 Noon Back to the desk. The edits to yesterday's additions are usually done by this point. I look over where I left off in the piece, consult my pages of pre-compositional planning, and begin to generate material for the next part. Also, depending on the circumstance, around this time I occasionally will turn the wifi off of my laptop. The many e-mail pings and other notifications will become a major distraction. 04:00PM I shift my operation over to the surface of the bed at this point, as sitting all day has made me uncomfortable. I spread all my pages out in front of me so that I can refer to any concept with just a quick glance up. 07:00PM Return to the kitchen. Again, Spartan mode. If I have leftovers from earlier in the day I will eat that. Otherwise, I will make either the same thing as before or, if low on those ingredients, another quick dish. 08:00PM This is often a critical point. I have been awake for 12 hours and completed enough new material to have run into a conceptual or practical roadblock (musically speaking). I still feel in the zone though, and begin to pace around my apartment while pondering solutions to this issue or issues. 10:00PM I have come up with a plan of attack and am implementing this. Generally, it is unclear at first whether or not a given solution will work. Sadly, this means I have to compose a great deal of music before I can determine if it is a successful fix or if I need another approach. 12:00AM - 02:00AM (depending on the day) I am running solely on craft and inertia, trying to fulfill as much of the latest idea as possible while still making sense. Writing short notes about where this will continue the next day is commonplace, along with skeletal sketches. When I feel enough of the idea has been realized on the page for me to know how to pick it up again in the morning I try to go to sleep. As I close my eyes thoughts and combinations relating to the composition are still racing through my head. I jump up and run back to the desk to jot things down at least twice before actually falling asleep.The weeks of the year when I am actively writing a new composition I rarely leave my room. I do not compose at an instrument, such as a piano, and therefore do not need to be at an office or studio in order to get work done. As long as I have a place to sit and write in my manuscript book (maybe also an outlet for my laptop) I can be equally productive. I never need a board meeting to determine what direction the next project will take. If I get bored I can always change things up; go someplace new, write for instruments I have no experience with, tinker / experiment with other techniques / forms I have only heard in my head, and so on. No one can prevent me from pursuing a given direction in my music or have the authority to tell me otherwise.The deep isolation can be tough, not so much on me (I have always worked well alone), but on others close to me. Often I will catch a cold the week after I finish. My body and mind have been in such a state of prolonged stress that when I am ready to relax and let my guard down my immune system takes a break too. Thinking really hard about something for such a long time does require time afterwards to reset and readjust to "normal" life for me. With that being said, I would not trade it in for anything. Getting to witness wild abstractions come to life time and time again is the greatest feeling in the world. To this day after every performance of mine this notion continues to amaze me. The composition was just a blank sheet of paper not too long ago, and in that regard, all pieces start the same way. What fascinates me is that from this uniformly blank slate comes almost all music I have heard and will ever hear.