 The voice in Steve Reich's early tape work Come out (1966) was Donald Hamm, one of the six boys arrested in the 1964 Harlem riots. Reich composed the piece as part of a Town Hall benefit to gain a retrial for those boys involved. The composer had come across a recording of Hamm describing his attempts to get medical attention after being beaten by the police. In the article Listening Subjects: Semiotics, Psychoanalysis, and the Music of John Adams and Steve Reich author David Schwarz details the audio of the youth trying to squeeze his wounds to show blood. Accordingly, the piece begins with a taped voice saying I had to like open the bruise up and let some of the bruise blood come out to show them (0:00-0:005). After a two-second silence (0:05-0:07), the passage is repeated (0:07-0:12); after another two second silence (0:12-0:14), the passage is repeated again (0:14-0:19). For the rest of the piece, the listener moves into the spoken voice, through the repetition and phase manipulation of shorter and shorter phrases and words from the text with which the piece began: come out to show them, to show them, come out. As in It's Gonna Rain, the repetition of come out sounds like a direct address to the listener, an imperative.The inherently musical voice of Donald Hamm, specifically Hamm's distinctive rhythmic/melodic pronunciation of the phrase come out to show them, led Reich to utilize the same phasing process as seen in It's Gonna Rain (1965). Like It's Gonna Rain, Come Out begins with a loop of the phrase as a single channel recorded on a whole reel. Next, the composer records the same loop on channel 2, carefully lining them up to ensure the two channels are in unison. Soon thereafter the composer allows one of the parts to phase forward (or the other to phase backward depending on your point of aural focus). According to the 1971 interview with Michael Nyman, this was achieved by Reich gradually holding the supply reel of the recording machine back with his thumb. Reich states, I was literally slowing it down, but at such an imperceptible rate that you can't hear. At the point where the two-channel relationship 'Come out to show them' has separated into 'come out-come out/ show them-show them', approximately two quavers away by the composer's estimate, he goes on to make a loop from it too. To effectively divide the two channels into four, then finally four into eight 'voices' Reich repeats the phasing process. First, he feeds the current two channel phase into channel 1, again holding it back with his thumb so that it is four quavers away from the original sound and can be heard as a series