 Deconstructing the Technology in Idle ChatterAt its source, the voice heard in the Idle Chatter series of works by Paul Lansky is his wife Hannah MacKay. After recording the spoken text, text that is not ever revealed by the composer, MacKay's voice is used with a Linear Prediction Coding (LPC) algorithm. According to Lansky in a conversation with Jeffrey Perry published in Perspectives of New Music (1996), the Linear Predictive Coding rapidly changes banks of formant filters. Lansky goes on to say-- I just isolate words, sort of flatten the pitch contours a bit, and then transpose them. The sustained stuff is done with granular synthesis. Joseph Rothstein in his review of Idle Chatter from Computer Music Journal's Autumn 1995 issue points out that a variety of stochastic mixing techniques were also utilized by Lansky. How the Voice is Developed and Degraded in Seminal Speech WorksWhen compared to the speech works I previously discussed (I Am Sitting in a Room; Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco; and Come Out), Idle Chatter takes a different approach to formal development and vocal transformations. First, the speech is never fully intelligible. One instantly recognizes it as sounds from a human's voice, even more specifically an adult woman's voice. However, due to the constant fragmentation of words, the syntactic meaning is obscured. As the playback continues and many of the samples become familiar, albeit retaining their functionality as novel utterances. It is this false familiarity that causes listeners to question what exactly they are hearing: Was that bear or there? I was certain the last time it was said the sounds was closer to bear, but now I am not so sure. Are these utterances changing or is my perception of them changing?All of the other aforementioned analyzed works deal with the loss of intelligibility, but as an arrival point along a continuum. They all begin with clarity of meaning and perhaps even intent. The loss of intelligibility and proportional increase in text ambiguity is at the core of each composition's musical development. For I am sitting in a room the spoken prose is entirely unaffected during the first iteration, as it is simply a performer speaking (usually predetermined text meant for clear comprehension) in an ordinary resonant space. Through re-recording the playback of the speech within the same space again and again the voice looses it's identifying articulations and becomes a featureless contour by the nth iteration. Though the audibility of the text as such is lost at this point, the process is dependent on repetition, and thus it is understood that the same text is being stated (re-stated) in the same space. This is not to say that there meaning is unwavering. Striping the audibility of the text over the course a performance carries implications of death, loss, voicelessness, and so forth. For Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco, Harvey's son, a chorister, is heard throughout the work. During the first section the sung text, taken from the Latin inscription from the Winchester tenor bell, is clearly intelligible with the only obstruction toward easy comprehension being the non-native aspect of the Latin language. As the work progresses, Harvey transitions between the various transpositions of the real recorded singing and the synthesized, fake vocal line. The gradual approach of the fake from the real creates moments within gestures of immense ambiguity. This is further emphasized when paired with the real (pre-recorded) and fake (synthesized) tenor bell sounds. Motion between these diametrically opposed materials, human and digital, provides more directional freedom than is heard in I am sitting in a room. The decay of language comprehension is no longer an inevitable slide from clarity to syntactic opacity. Rather, Harvey is able to move in either way from pure, sine tone based lines modeled after the voice's overtones to the real voice, complete with text and articulation. Unlike I am sitting in a room and similar to Idle Chatter, Mortuos Plango uses fragmentation and reordering of the chorister sound samples, further obscuring the distorting the original meaning of the text. For Come Out the relationship between the voice and text is somewhere between the linear (A transitioning to B) I am sitting in a room and the multi-directional/fragmented (A to B, B to A, A-B-A, B-A-B, etc) Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco. Come Out functions with a strict process piece identity and an inevitability of outcome shared with I am sitting in a room, but also maintains the fragmentation, reordering of phrases, and multi-directionality of Mortuos Plango Vivos Voco. One could even compare the sections of heightened ambiguity of comprehending what the exact text is (come out to show them) with parts of Idle Chatter where the text is creating equally ambiguous novel words existing in the margins of intelligibility (there vs. bear). Another quality differentiating Come Out from the other works is the lack of acoustic (timbral) transformation in the voice even during sections of great syntactic ambiguity. Since there is no electronic processing of any kind and the development is achieved by means of phasing duplicate copies of the vocal sample, the ambiguity arises out of the inevitable overlapping of different rhythms set to different words. Lastly, the sheer rate and relentlessness of the sample repetition causes a loss of meaning in the text. To hear the same phrase again and again, unaltered (only rhythmically offset), forces a different kind of listening and is often compared to a trance or meditation. The essence of the phrase is retained as a long form focal point and the details, the meaning and syntactical content in this case, are slowly and progressively disregarded perceptually despite their omnipresence in the texture. How then does Lansky achieve development in Idle Chatter when syntactic ambiguity is unwavering? Despite the voice and text being in a continuous state of communicative opacity, Lansky is able to effectively create a sense of contrasting sections through the use of different orchestrational techniques and through traditional harmonic motion. In his review of the work in the autumn 1995 issue