 [Please click for full resolution-- Image via 7. Orchestral Idioms and Mass Effects after World War II]Micropolyphony was coined by composer Gyrgy Ligeti in the early 1960s to describe the application of canonic structures to large numbers of individual instrumental or vocal lines. A prime example would be his 1961 orchestral work Atmospheres, whereby a 48 part mirror canon is constructed with separate parts for each of the fourteen first violins, fourteen second violins, ten violas, and ten cellos. The effect is, according to Ligeti, that--[...]you cannot actually hear the polyphony, the canon. You hear a kind of impenetrable texture, something like a very densely woven cobweb. I have retained melodic lines in the process of composition, they are governed by rules as strict as Palestrina's or those of the Flemish school, but the rules of this polyphony are worked out by me. The polyphonic structure does not come through, you cannot hear it; it remains hidden in a microscopic, underwater world, to us inaudible. I call it micropolyphony (such a beautiful word!). (Bernard)Around the same time period other composers were experimenting with dense textures resulting from many independent instrumental or vocal lines. These included, most notably, Krzysztof Penderecki (ex. Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima) and Iannis Xenakis (ex. Pithoprakta). What separated Ligeti and his micropolyphony technique from his contemporaries was the means of achieving the pitch clusters. Penderecki produces his extensive elaborations on tone clusters by aleatoric means, often involving a multitude of glissandi effects with indeterminate repetitions of attacks and entrances. Xenakis achieves his sound-cloud textures through mathematical structures and probabilities, taking data derived from such equations to determine starting and ending pitches/attack times/durations, then transcribing them to music paper.Though the term "micropolyphony" is strongly tired to Ligeti, there are composers with earlier works utilizing similar means, as well as several composers afterwards who were directly influenced by Ligeti. To collect recommendations of specific individuals who have written micropolyphonic pieces I conducted a cursory search through the Oxford Music Online and JSTOR databases. Luis de Freitas Branco (1890-1955)  [Vathek] is remarkable particularly for its third variation: a fugato for strings in 59 parts that foreshadows Ligetian 'micropolyphony'. (Moody)Paul Dessau (1894-1979)  [Musik fr 15 Streichinstrumente's] exposition and recapitulation both comprise four clearly defined tutti sections which embrace writing of stark contrasts, from sprung rhythms reminiscent of early Tippett to Ligetian micropolyphony. (Hinton) Dmitri Shostakovich (1906-1975)  The Symphonic Dedication to October  later designated the Second Symphony  is a single-movement oratorio-symphony. The work is notorious for its miasmic opening, with layered polyrhythms prophetic of 1960s Ligetian micropolyphony, and for a passage of manic 13-part free-association counterpoint as anarchic as anything in Schnittke. (Fanning)Clytus Gottwald (1925- )  Ligeti's pools of sound, for example, influenced Gottwald's transcription of Soupir by Maurice Ravel, and Ligeti's micropolyphony is the primary feature of the transcription of Berg's Die Nachtigall. (Bloesch) Friedrich Cerha (1926- )  [Baal is] a slick 1920s foxtrot rubs shoulder with micropolyphony and aleatoric procedures, and there is even an allusion to Messiaen's ornithological music. (Clayton) Alfred Schnittke (1934-1998)  The brief, wordless Voices of Nature (1972), for ten women's voices and vibraphone (deployed in an eleven-part canon), is closer to the Schnittke we know in its use of Ligetian micropolyphony to produce dense and dissonant clusters. (Anderson) Sndor Balassa (1935- )  Finally, the contrast between rangy expressionist vocal melody and a dense micopolyphony in which isolable melody plays little part obviously suggests Ligeti, though Ligeti himself had not clearly adopted this technique when Balassa composed his Requiem in 1968-69. (Walsh)Erkki Salmenhaara (1941-2002)  On meeting Ligeti in 1962 [Salmenhaara] began to study his music and launched the concept of Tonfeld in Finland, which in Ligetis music covers both static timbres and micropolyphony, i.e. textures in which details are subordinated to the whole as statistical elements (permeability). (Heinio)Vahram Ohani Babaian (1948- )  [Babaian] makes use of impressionist and sonoristic techniques (the ballet Pygmalion), heterophony and micropolyphony (Fifth Symphony) and dense textures involving chords and clusters. (Sarkisyan)Akira Nishimura (1953- )  Nishimura principally employs heterophony, a characteristic device of Asian traditional music, thereby subtly transforming the intervals, rhythm and melody of his dense multi-layered textures. Though similar to the micropolyphony of Ligeti, an Asian perspective informs his technique. (Narazaki)Erkki-Sven Tr (1959- )  When the solo lines [of regilaul] play against the larger instrumental body, it is often in the complex textures of Ligetian micropolyphony. (Anderson)