 It is difficult to state anything about Johannes Ockeghems life with certainty due to the lack of existing original accounts from that time. For instance, his date of birth, though postulated between 1410-1425, is still open to debate by early music scholars. It should then come as no surprise that little is known surrounding Ockeghems life while composing Missa Prolationum, even basic information like the date of the work. The era from the mid to late 15th century is commonly used as a compositional date, but nothing more specific has been confirmed. Nevertheless, one can surely speculate about possible influences given knowledge of the time, place, and musical culture.Ockeghem is grouped with the Franco-Flemish School of composers. These include the first generation (1420-1450) figures like Guillaume Dufay, Gilles Binchois, and Antoine Busnois; and the second generation" (1450-1485) contemporaries of Ockeghem including Orto, Compere, Prioris, Agricola, Caron, Faugues, Regis, and Tinctorus. Biographer Leeman L. Perkins states that while Ockeghem may have begun his musical life as a choirboy training in Saint Ghislain, it is more probable he received most of his early education in the nearby Mons. Regardless, as a youth training as a chorister Ockeghem would have likely been familiar with the first generation of Franco-Flemish Composers, performing their works frequently.As Ockeghem matured in his musical abilities he was appointed to the court of Charles I, Duke of Bourbon, whose principal residence was in Moulins. According to Perkins, Ockeghem was listed first among the seven signer of the ducal chapel, preceded only by the premier chaplain and three priests, indicating that his performance skills were highly valued. When he then transitioned into composing masses his experiences performing such works from a young age must have informed his aesthetics and technique. Kenneth Kreitner points out the potential influence of these first generation composers in the paper Very Low ranges in the sacred music of Ockeghem and Tinctoris:Here for the last time in [Missa Prolationum] Ockeghem gives us the contrast, so characteristic of the first three movements, of slow harmonic rhythm and dense texture framing faster, more lightly scored harmonic and rhythmic activity. Such textural and rhythmic contrast seems almost archaistically reminiscent of the isorhythmic motets of Dunstable and Dufay.  Regarding the influence of his peers of this second generation, it is clear that there was an active practice of contemporary composers setting melodic passages of others within their works. Sometimes this was observed by taking a cantus firmus from one piece by one composer and re-contextualizing it in another piece by another composer. Perkins shows this was common for Ockeghem, and though it reveals a lot about the state of authorship during the era, it makes attribution in an absolute sense even more difficult. For instance, Perkins notes that the attribution to Ockeghem of Ut heremita solus is implied in Crtins Dploration; the work may have been Ockeghems reply to Busnoys In hydraulis. For Missa Prolationum Perkins goes so far as to assert that Ockeghem artfully concealed the execution of certain compositional materials in accordance with the principal aesthetic ideals of the period, as articulated, for example, by Tinctoris. Consequently, the unfamiliar features of Ockeghems style continue to pose problems for present analysis.Nevertheless, there has been a great deal of analysis regarding the form and structure in Ockeghems works. Reflecting this, Missa Prolationum is categorized as a prolation canon or mensuration canon, because its main melody is accompanied by one or more imitation of that melody in other voices. Mensuration canons are often thought of to be among the most difficult to write because not only do the voices sing the same melody, but also they do so at different speeds. As a result of this complexity of construction they are fairly uncommon throughout the repertoire. Author Edward A. Melson in his paper Compositional Strategies in Mensuration and Proportion Canons, ca. 1400 to ca. 1600 points out that Ockeghems interest in this specific method was a rarity for the time:The record for this canon is not so extensive as for the motet, probably not least because in contrast to motets, mensuration and proportion canons form a miniscule part of the total repertoire of Renaissance music, and no composer apart from Ockeghem seems to have shown a sustained interest in them. In order to find a historical precursor to Missa Prolationum with a high probability that Ockeghem would have studied as an example of a rigorous mensuration canon, one may have to widen the search beyond the Franco-Flemish School. Johannes Ciconia (c.1370-1412) is a good candidate, as his Le Ray Au Soleyl was quite influential. Also, at a nearly a century earlier still, there was Philippe de Vitry (1291-1361) whose four prolations were used simultaneously by Ockeghem in Missa Prolationum. Perkins describes this act of musical quotation by Ockeghem as: [Perhaps] the most extraordinary contrapuntal achievement of the 15th century [] it presents a series of canons whose interval of imitation expands from the unison progressively through to the octave in accordance with a complex combination of verbal instructions, rests and mensural signs. Surprisingly, the result is a graceful, euphonious composition that gives the listener no hint of the intricate technical problems it embodies. Lastly, a major influence inherent in the complex canons was mathematics, and though this is not technically a musical influence it did shape compositional thought the 15th century. Paul Kinsman in Platonic and Pythagorean Ratios in the Formal Analysis of 15th Century Music highlights this crucial aspect of Ockeghems Missa Prolationum: This mass typifies a musical composition whose structure suggests a link with the type of celestial mathematics that pervades 15th C composition. The Prolation mass consists entirely of mensuration canons, or prolations, which employ a single melody to be imitated by one or more voices after a duration of time. In Ockeghems original mass only two voices are notated and the other two voices must be derived from the notated. When the two notated voices perform with the other two derived voices, a double prolation canon ensues. Ockeghem places the upper pair of original and derived voices in the prolatio major while the lower voices in prolatio minor and one voice in each of the pair sings in perfect time while the other sings in imperfect time. In Missa Prolationum the interval of imitation increases throughout the mass from the unison up to the octave, using all of the traditionally imperfect intervals as well. This intricate mass is one of Ockeghems most intricate pieces and in turn one of the most complex Renaissance compositions. Beside the intricate prolation canon, the actual structure of the mass references divine mathematics.