 In order to analyze different uses of timbral saturation between various works it is necessary to understand the term itself. The concept of timbral saturation could be compared to chromatic saturation. The dodecaphonic works in the early-middle 20th century relied heavily on the saturation of the octave both compositionally and aesthetically, ensuring the appearance of all twelve pitch-classes within a segment of music. This idea of utilizing all available pitches at the same is analogous to the treatment of timbre. In the article Raphal Cendo, Registre des lumires, author Nathan Cornelius outlines saturation (seen in Cendo's works) as-- [] overloading the sonic environment so that unforeseen qualities emerge in it, like overloading a microphone with a signal so strong that it generates distortion or feedback. This process can take many forms, such as dense unsynchronized textures, radical extended techniques, or the buildup of contrasting timbres (tone colors).Timbral saturation is then described as-- [] stretching listeners ability to perceive many diverse sound qualities at once. At any given moment, ones attention might rapidly be shifting from the violinists playing col legno, to the pianist hammering on the strings with felt beaters, to the trombonist playing multiphonics with a double reed, to the choir stage-whispering into their microphones.This contextualizing of timbral saturation works well, as exemplified with the Cendo piece, when applied to chamber ensembles or larger groups. However, the Lachenmann, Hendrix, and Romitelli pieces are all focusing on the soloist. Nevertheless, the same principles will be examined; focusing on the sections where the instrumental tone is overloaded and unstable, simultaneously containing many different timbres or rapidly shifting between timbres. Most often this is realized in heavy distortion and, in the case of acoustic instruments, extreme pressure applied to a gesture to effectively distort the tone.Pression (1969)  Helmut LachenmannGiven the above definition, I am reluctant to believe that any of Pression qualifies as true timbral saturation. During the points of overpressure with the bow, the pitch content is not drown out by noise. Furthermore, there is a stability and consistency within the technique of overpressure. For every instance the same ratio of string pitch and scratch tone sound is achieved. There are sections highlighting a greater level of sonic ambiguity, however these (again) do not aim to encompass many different timbres concurrently or rapidly shift between timbres per gesture. Pression is a tour de force regarding all sorts of sounds possible on the instrument, though each timbre is approached in a manner to create a discrete, repeatable identity instead of a combine, opaque resultant. The points of indefinite or indeterminate pitch are also not saturated with sound, but rather characterized by thin, hollow, and airy textures from specific bowing (traditionally or otherwise) of the cello body and bridge. Lachenmann has written on this topic for Pression, stating:In the case of the beautiful, professional cello tone, the relationship of action and result is  as with all sounds considered beautiful in our society  particularly obscured regarding effort and resistance, whereas with the extreme pressure of the fingertips sliding along the wood of the bow the relationship is much more complicated: an almost inaudible result speaks, as it were, of a maximum effort.Helmut Lachenmann, Einfhrungstext zu Pression in Musik als existentielle Erfahrung, p. 381.[Image via Page on youtube.com]Star Spangled Banner (Woodstock 1969)  Jimi Hendrix (arr.)This inclusion in the conversation about timbral saturation among soloists is unique in a number of ways. First, the soloist is performing within the context of a band of musicians, rather than alone onstage. In terms of how extreme sonic textures are received by an audience, employing these intense sounds is more accessible when supported (even if only minimally) by other instruments. This is a matter of contextualization, where the audience is perceiving the points of saturation as explorations into new timbres, yet not fully abandoning the rock band archetype. Though the contribution of the rest of the band musically was quite sparse during this Star Spangled Banner performance at Woodstock, without their presence to fulfill the model expected of the situation the audience would have likely felt abandoned by such unorthodox, ungrounded sounds from the soloist. Secondly, the relationship the soloist has with the composition is also unique among the three works here. At its origin, the Star Spangled Banner is not a contemporary piece, in fact it is far from it. The Star Spangled Banner is an example of a contrafactum: new lyrics set to existing music. In this case, the music was initially "The Anacreontic Song", also known as "To Anacreon In Heaven", and functioned as the official song of the Anacreontic Society, an 18th-century gentlemen's club of amateur musicians in London. It is fascinating how this Colonial-Era, British drinking song has transformed over the centuries-- with Francis Scott Key penning new lyrics during the Defense of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812, to its later revisions and subsequent publication as a patriotic song, to the song's official designation as the U.S. national anthem in 1931, to represent the unbridled freedom sought by the late 1960s counter-culture via this iconic Hendrix rendition. It is clear that the most notable, and subsequently imitated, aspects of Hendrix's version of the Star Spangled Banner were not in any way indicated through the notated composition. The aggressive whammy-bar dives, frequent forays into amplifier feedback, and quick chromatic alterations between thick extended chords (foreign to the original song) contribute to the characteristic timbral saturation of this Woodstock performance. Interestingly, this was not the first time Hendrix had performed the Star Spangled Banner--by a long shot. According to Hendrix scholar Joel J. Brattin in an article with Worcester Polytechnic Institute there are nearly 50 live recordings of Hendrix playing the national anthem, 28 made before Woodstock. [Image via Page on youtube.com]Trash TV Trance(2002)  Fausto Romitelli To compare the level of nuance involved in the timbral saturation between the Romitelli and Hendrix pieces is complicated. For Hendrix, the techniques leading to timbral saturation were honed in over many performances, as the work was initially without any native tendencies in this regard. The sections of timbral saturation function not as a harmonious embellishments on the preexisting material, but rather the soloist's artistic commentary on the piece itself, virtually re-imagining the work in his own musical language. Trash TV Trance was composed in a world where both Hendrix's Star Spangled Banner and Lachenmann's Pression had already existed for over 30 years. As a result, Romitelli creates in many ways an amalgamation between these, taking the distorted electric guitar and approaching the instrument in an even more obscure, unorthodox, Lachenmann-like way. The timbral saturation is not achieved with the same sense of spontaneity or fluidity seen in the Hendrix, as Hendrix's performance was likely drawing from equal parts prior performances and novel improvisation. Trash TV Trance is fully notated, and though some interpretation is necessary for all written music, soloists for Romitelli's piece stick closely to the nuanced indications in order to accurately reproduce the intended effects. Some of these effects (touching the live 1/4 jack from the instrument cable to the metal guitar bridge, scraping the plectrum against the low E and A strings in a circular motion, etc) generate timbral saturation, though they are employed as discrete sounds, each with a repeatable identity. Where this diverges with Lachenmann is Romitelli's use of combine techniques. The resultant is far more saturated timbrally, however perhaps less opaque and ambiguous than Lachenmann's more detailed gestures. [Image via Page on youtube.com]