 The most fundamental difference I see is the multiplicity of discrete variations on a theme (Bach), versus continuous variation through repetition (Abrahamsen). Before going deeper into a comparison, I will first examine how each composer structured their respective work. The Goldberg Variations represent the most extended single composition for the harpsichord Bach ever wrote. The 30 variations utilize the bass line of the Aria (shown below) as a formal constraint to create different variations on top of. As a set, these contain a plethora of stylistic references, heightening the contrast between each variation. [Please click for full resolution] Beyond the bass line, the relationship between the variations in the set can be understood as an intervallic progression, increasing/ascending with each cycle. The cycles are ternary and consist of the given intervallic canon followed by a genre piece, and arabesque. The cycle goes through nine iterations before the Quodlibet (pastiche, combining the aria with two popular tunes that fit its harmonic structure) breaks the pattern to foreshadow the aria da capo at the end. Musicologist and harpsichordist Ralph Kirkpatrick expounds on this systematic approach to the variations in the preface to the 1938 G. Schirmer edition to the score. As an example, variation 3 is a canon at the unison, variation 6 is a canon at the second, variation 9 is a canon at the third, and so on until variation 27, a canon at the ninth. Kirkpatrick goes on to note that the variations that intervene between the canons are also arranged in a pattern. After each canon are genre pieces of various types, among them three Baroque dances (4, 7, 19); a fughetta (10); a French overture (16); and two ornate arias for the right hand (13, 25). Furthermore, variations located two after each canon (5, 8, 11, 14, 17, 20, 23, 26, and 29) are what Kirkpatrick calls "arabesques"; they are variations in lively tempo with a great deal of hand-crossing. The moments of greatest profundity, in my experience, during the Goldberg Variations are the unexpected places Bach is able to arrive at later in the composition. After so many creative takes on G major, the G minor arrivals in variations 15, 21, and 25 feel substantial. In particular, Variatio 21. Canone alla Settima with the slow lament bass immediately following the virtuosic two-part toccata of the preceding variation. Bach never composed an opera, but with this impassioned embellishment of the Aria bass line he is perhaps commenting on the prevalence of this convention and its association with, as Purcell described, love in seventeenth-century opera. [Please click for full resolution] The key structural component in Schnee is also the canonic writing, in fact the subtitle is "ten canons for nine instruments." The canons are grouped into pairs (1a, 1b, 2a, 2b, etc). Three intermezzi are also interspersed throughout the work, further dividing