 The most fundamental difference I see is the multiplicity of discrete variations on a theme (Bach), versus continuous variation through repetition (Abrahamsen). Before going deeper into a comparison, I will first examine how each composer structured their respective work. The Goldberg Variations represent the most extended single composition for the harpsichord Bach ever wrote. The 30 variations utilize the bass line of the Aria (shown below) as a formal constraint to create different variations on top of. As a set, these contain a plethora of stylistic references, heightening the contrast between each variation. [Please click for full resolution] Beyond the bass line, the relationship between the variations in the set can be understood as an intervallic progression, increasing/ascending with each cycle. The cycles are ternary and consist of the given intervallic canon followed by a genre piece, and arabesque. The cycle goes through nine iterations before the Quodlibet (pastiche, combining the aria with two popular tunes that fit its harmonic structure) breaks the pattern to foreshadow the aria da capo at the end. Musicologist and harpsichordist Ralph Kirkpatrick expounds on this systematic approach to the variations in the preface to the 1938 G. Schirmer edition to the score. As an example, variation 3 is a canon at the unison, variation 6 is a canon at the second, variation 9 is a canon at the third, and so on until variation 27, a canon at the ninth. Kirkpatrick goes on to note that the variations that intervene between the canons are also arranged in a pattern. After each canon are genre pieces of various types, among them three Baroque dances (4, 7, 19); a fughetta (10); a French overture (16); and two ornate arias for the right hand (13, 25). Furthermore, variations located two after each canon (5, 8, 11, 14, 17, 20, 23, 26, and 29) are what Kirkpatrick calls "arabesques"; they are variations in lively tempo with a great deal of hand-crossing. The moments of greatest profundity, in my experience, during the Goldberg Variations are the unexpected places Bach is able to arrive at later in the composition. After so many creative takes on G major, the G minor arrivals in variations 15, 21, and 25 feel substantial. In particular, Variatio 21. Canone alla Settima with the slow lament bass immediately following the virtuosic two-part toccata of the preceding variation. Bach never composed an opera, but with this impassioned embellishment of the Aria bass line he is perhaps commenting on the prevalence of this convention and its association with, as Purcell described, love in seventeenth-century opera. [Please click for full resolution] The key structural component in Schnee is also the canonic writing, in fact the subtitle is "ten canons for nine instruments." The canons are grouped into pairs (1a, 1b, 2a, 2b, etc). Three intermezzi are also interspersed throughout the work, further dividing the hour-long time scale into sections. Unlike the Bach, these canons are not built off of a theme inherent aspect of the original (for instance the bass line). Rather, variation takes place via the addition of new motifs while retaining others in a static role. This creates a thread connecting the different canons and provides a sense of subtle growth from point A to B over a long stretch, then (still unhurried) back to A. Though the similarities between each of the Goldberg Variations are palpable, notably the inescapable G Major and ground bass blueprint, the drama is attained by abrupt stylistic shifts. Far from subtle, this path would be more appropriated simplified as point A to B to C to D  to A' (the Quodlibet), then all the sudden back to A for the aria da capo.In lieu of genre pieces breaking up the succession of canons, Abrahamsen uses intermezzi. These periods function as drawn out reliefs from the otherwise relentless ostinati, but also serve the practical function of allowing the players to re-tune their instruments microtonally without completely stopping the motion of the piece. It is incorrect, however, to think that without genre pieces Schnee is not as historically referential as the Goldberg Variations.[Image via Discovering recent masterworks: Abrahamsen's "Schnee"]The color and orchestration achieved by various instrumental techniques is inextricably linked to other works of the modern era; the jet whistle points back to Assobio a Jato (1950) by Heitor Villa-Lobos, the inside-the-piano muting points backs to The Banshee (1925) by Henry Cowell, and the use of office supplies (rubbing sheets of paper) as percussion points back to various efforts by John Cage and then Mauricio Kagel throughout the latter half of the 20th century. The Goldberg Variations references are integral to how Bach navigates variation form. Whereas, these references of modern techniques in Schnee are unrelated to the way variation form is employed, and can be heard as the language of the work instead of a structurally significant component. [Image via Discovering recent masterworks: Abrahamsen's "Schnee"]Lastly, due to the difference in instrumentation between these two works the way that drama is built through variation form is different. The solo keyboard (or harpsichord) player can only maintain so many independent lines at one time, a characteristic tested to the limits in some of the canons. With nine instruments Schnee progresses less by intervallic identity (as in Goldberg Variations) and more by total saturation or density of texture. Canon 1a is sparse and transparent in individual lines, and while some of the momentum is carried over to subsequent canons, more active layers are added, effectively expanding on the core pulse. The result is oddly a more linear development in the variations of Schnee than the complex relationships constituting a development throughout the Goldberg Variations.