 I recently detailed how the human voice is manipulated in Lucier's I am sitting in a room in What about the "natural voice" is musical in Schwitters' Ursonate? How does this compare with the musical characteristics of Lucier's I Am Sitting in a Room? The following is an analysis of the voice in Harvey's Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco adapted from a research paper I wrote entitled: Use Your Illusion: An Analysis of Illusionary Compositional Techniques in Jonathan Harvey's Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco and Maryanne Amacher's Synaptic IslandTo begin, it is important to understand how the concept for the work was derived from the Latin inscription on the great tenor bell at Winchester Cathedral, England: Horas Avolantes Numero, Mortuos Plango: Vivos ad Preces Voco (I count the fleeing hours, I lament the dead: the living I call to prayer).[1] The above Latin text was sung by the composer's son, a young chorister, then the recording was treated to various countrapuntal manipulations. Similar processes were applied to the raw recording of the tolling Winchester tenor bell, creating a plethora of sounds generated only from these two sources. Next, while in residence at IRCAM in Paris, Harvey mapped the natural sound properties of the chorister and bell. Through the use of IRCAM's augmented MUSIC V programing language and with the assistance of Stanley Haynes and Xavier Rodet,[2] Harvey was able to create synthesized digital versions of these two sound sources, as well as structure the large-scale pitch motion throughout the work on their characteristic frequencies. The use of illusion in Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco stems from how Harvey employs the four sounds (original chorister, original bell, synthesized chorister, synthesized bell) throughout the work. Save for a few brief instances during the onset of the composition, these sounds are never fully stated in their basic (prime) form. Rather, the four sounds can be thought of as quadrants on a plane, whereby the musical gestures are represented by the lines between the sectors. From a listener's standpoint, the gradients from one sound to another are manifested in complex timbral transformations. It is the mid-points of these transformations force one to question  What is real? What is fake? and How is ambiguity achieved?Harvey carefully weaves the real, normal, and familiar original bell tone and voice sample with the fake, novel and unfamiliar synthetic guises of microtonal sine-tone glissandi connecting the bell transpositions, the reordered splicing of source material, and the mathematically generated static drones. The infinite gradients of perception between sound sources and synthesis was made possible due to the acoustic modeling of pitches, which revolutionized how electronic music could be created henceforth. As a representative example of working in such a fragile perceptual space, contributor Michael Clarke outlines composer Hans Tutschku's investigation of the transition between the first and section section in Analytical Methods of Electroacoustic Music, stating:There are three stages to the transformation. First, there is the original vocal sound Pre. This vocal sound cross-fades with sine waves on the most significant frequencies of the vocal sound. Next, these sine waves glissando toward the frequencies of selected partials of the bell on C (260 Hz), contracting in overall frequency range. Finally, (overlapping with these glissandi) these is another, expanding set of glissandi with vibrato, leading into the bell strike for Section 3. [The following figure] uses a sonogram to show this transformation in outline, and [the subsequent figure] shows its pitch structure in more detail, using semibreves to represent pivot notes. The move from the recorded Pre to a synthesized imitation enables the sound to be transformed. The synthesized sine waves can glissando independently, each by different amounts, toward the partials of the bell.[3]For the boy's voice the real and fake are clearly discernible in their isolated forms through the presence (or lack thereof) of text. The synthesized voice is able to maintain the feel of a human singing through degree of exactitude in sine wave reproduction in overtones. However, it falters in lacking the nuances necessary to physically produce sound in the throat and mouth (inhaling, exhaling, syllabic articulation, etc). For the tenor bell the differentiation is far less straightforward. The envelope of attack of the real bell is often reshaped by Harvey during playback to provide a greater sense of ambiguity. Without this distinctive attack it is unclear from the onset whether what is being played is the bell, a sine tone, or even the entrance of the boy's voice. The fake bell in its isolated form still sounds fake, though this judgment is at the threshold of differentiability. As there are less physical characteristics to cue the listener (no breath or text), and the same generation of overtones from the original sound source is exercised, the final verdict for discerning the bell is a I know it when I hear it situation.[4]Perhaps the most immediately palpable and yet mysterious use of illusion stems from the transfiguration of the voice and the loss, or at times fragmentation, of the prescribed text. The clear presentation of the Latin inscription through the opening lyrics sets up a certain expectation given the tradition of boy choristers singing in Anglican liturgical settings. Short texts, such as this one in Mortuos, are typically repeated ad nauseam during a mass or similar setting to showcase the abilities of the choir and composer to generate elaborate contrapuntal tapestries given the modest initial material. Harvey deviates from this practice by the degree of compressing, excerpting, and otherwise mutilating the original recording of the sung passage. Composers of early church music certainly employed similar techniques of augmentation, diminution, inversion, and retrograde to make the most out of their materials, but this was always within the realm of human performance. By removing the restriction of human performance Harvey is able do away with the standard division keeping single sounds from becoming both individual small-scale events and multiple large-scale formal markers. For instance, the recording of the boy's voice is utilized in one section as a flurry of incomprehensible burst, sped up and played in reverse as to mimic the sounds of a tiny engine. The text content is lost entirely here. To achieve forward motion Harvey will then employ the polar opposite treatment to the same recorded passage, stretching the voice to such an extreme that the specific articulations which would ordinarily be heard as consonants are now odd, languid impurities in an otherwise pure wave of slow-moving sonorities. Again, the text content is lost entirely, albeit for a completely different reason. Lastly, when the same manipulations are performed on the synthesized version of the voice, already devoid of text content, a full catalog is established where the composer can freely draw upon any of these versions to add to and comment on the original Latin meaning. [1] Harvey, Jonathan. Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco: A Realization at IRCAM. Computer Music Journal 5.4 (1981): 22-23. JSTOR. Web. 15 Jan. 2015.[2] Ibid., 22.[3] Simoni, Mary H. Analytical Methods of Electroacoustic Music. New York: Routledge, 2006: 125. Print.[4] A play on the colloquial expression I know it when I see it famously used in 1964 by United States Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart to describe his threshold test for obscenity in Jacobellis v. Ohio.