 [Image via Luigi Nono]MovementsI. Sul ponte di Hiroshima - for soprano, tenor, and orchestraII. Djamila Boupacha - for solo sopranoIII. Tu - for soprano, tenor, and orchestraRequired Instrumental ForcesSolo sopranoSolo tenor3 Flutes3 Oboes3 Clarinets in Bb3 Bassoons4 Horns in F4 Trumpets in C4 Trombones8 Violin I8 Violin II8 Violas6 Cellos					6 Basses4-6 Percussionists4 Timpani12 Tubular bells (3 per performer) 8 Suspended cymbals4 Tam-tams8 Side drums4 Bass DrumsRegarding the general approach to the orchestra in Canti di vita e d'amore, Nono displays a clear interest in spatialization and the division of the orchestra into discrete choirs. John Irvine writes of this method in the article Luigi Nonos Canti di vita e damore: New Phases of Development 1960-62:[...] One can also sense Nono looking back on his Venetian heritage by, firstly, taking on the spatiomusical innovations of the Gabrielis (the placement of sounds in a particular space or acoustic) and secondly, that inspired by the highly chromatic music of Gesualdo (microtonal movement within the sounds themselves). It seems as if everything Nono does in his creative life takes Venice, and particularly the Giudecca, his home, as the chief poetic point of departure [...]Instruments are laid out on the score in groups of twelve which obviously facilitates Nono's desire to position all twelve tones, and their twelve intervening microtones, in some form of stratification across the instrumental sections. This concept of grouping his orchestra into 'choirs' of woodwind, brass, strings and percussion implies that each section will have its own unique functionality; and will accordingly give rise to music in which opposing groups are able to work antiphonally, as separate entities, with or against each other.				 This "stratification" described in the Irvine excerpt relates to a technique of orchestration coined by theorist Edward T. Cone with regards to the music of Igor Stravinsky. Stratification means a sudden change in the music that makes the piece of music change dramatically, often incorporating a division of layers as the music progresses. This is heard most decisively in the first movement Sul Ponte di Hiroshima with Nono drawing on the instrumental choirs within the full orchestra to signal shifts, often linked to changes in tempo.Canti di vita e d'amore also signals an important major departure from the typical serial techniques for Nono. In the article Luigi Nono's Canti di vita e d'amore: Musical Dialectics and the Opposition of the Present and Future author Bruce Durazzi cites a verbal note from Nono stating that this work would no longer use complete serial series, but instead would be composed of campi sonori (sounding fields) or fascie sonori (sounding bands) built upon collections of a few basic intervals. Durazzi goes on to explain how Nono utilizes this new way of thinking in Canti di vita e d'amore:					The pitch material is organized in various ways to construct campi sonori, normally in the form of tone clusters that exhaust a given collection of pitches according to some pattern: quarter- tone clusters of up to twenty-four notes, semitone clusters of up to twelve notes, whole-tone clusters of up to six notes, and occasionally complementary groupings of three-note cells of pitch-class set type [0,1,4].What is fascinating about the campi sonori is how throughout the first and third movements these clusters are arrived at, specifically, which points Nono decides to increase the divisi and which points to return to many instruments on a part. For I. Sul ponte di Hiroshima these increases and decreases in divisi effect the microtonal saturation at any given moment. Nono orchestrates using 'pitch bands', whereby each instrument has a specific confined range, far more exacting and limiting than the typical 'natural' ranges of these instruments. These bandwidths are heard structurally and gesturally as waves entering and leaving the texture. Irvine describes an example of this treatment of microtonal pitches in the opening of Canti di cita e d'amore:The woodwind section never uses microtones, whilst the string have all 24 pitches at their disposal from the very beginning of the first movement. The brass begins to use microtones at bar 31 in the French horns and then more consistently from bar 70 to the end of the movement. There are three occurrences of microtones in the percussion