 [Image via The Sound of Struggle Tempered With Terror: Penderecki At 80]Krzysztof Pendereckis Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima (1960) was written for 52 string instruments and is notable for the use of extended instrumental techniques (playing behind the bridge, bowing on the tailpiece, etc.) and textures consisting of tone clusters. The extended techniques employed throughout Threnody were not novel on an individual basis. However, their application to an entire string orchestra, and paired with unconventional notation made the results unique for the time. The tone clusters could be seen as dialoging with the works immediately predating Threnody such as the sound-clouds of Iannis Xenakis (ex. Metastaseis, 1954) or micropolyphony of Gyorgy Ligeti (ex. Apparitions, 1958-1959), though it is unclear exactly how much their concepts influenced Pendereckis writing. The opening of Metastaseis is a particularly striking similarity to passages of Threnody, with Xenakis texture dominated by the string section split up into 46 separate parts, all completing glissandi at different pitch levels from a union to create a sound mass. What is more fascinating still is that Xenakis preliminary sketch for Metastaseis was in graphic notation, again baring certain similarities to Pendereckis aleatoric notation with Threnody, showing graphs of mass motion and glissandi like structural beams of the piece, with pitch on one axis and time on the other. Yet unlike Penderecki who took his aleatoric representation as the completed score, Xenakis then rewrote every event in traditional notation for the published score.Perhaps more importantly, what separates each of these composers techniques is the means of achieving the dense, individually moving divisi lines. Xenakis achieves his sound-cloud textures through mathematical structures and probabilities, taking data derived from such equations to determine starting and ending pitches/attack times/durations, then transcribing them to music paper. Ligeti was heavily influenced by the massive polyphonic canons in the music of early choral composers like Johannes Ockeghem, and thus, applied such ideas to a dodecaphonic pitch language. Penderecki produced his extensive elaborations on tone clusters by aleatoric means, often involving a multitude of glissandi effects with indeterminate repetitions of attacks and entrances. It is possible that the similarities between all of these works stem from a late 1950s  early 1960s, increase in textual complexity zeitgeist, rather than peer influence. The use of aleatory is coupled with a time-line notation or proportional notation where rather than meters and bar lines the composer writes durations (in minutes and seconds) for how long a given gesture should last. There is a certain lack of temporal precision inherent in how this time-line notation is used by Penderecki. Add the often similarly indeterminate element of pitch (with indications like as high as possible) and it is clear that the complexity heard in performance far exceeds the complexity shown of the page. Penderecki deconstructs what is required to create sound masses. The differentiation between these compositional methodologies is therefore beyond labels and the aesthetics of notation, it is a matter of decision making. For Xenakis sound-clouds and Ligetis micropolyphony the composer carefully instructs each performer on the changing musical parameters at any given time. For Pendereckis sound masses the composer provides a loose shape and the performers make their own decisions (to an extent) to achieve the shape.This transfer of creative decision-making from the composer to performer shows the influence of John Cage. In Tony Bannachs paper An Extended Analysis of Krzysztof Pendereckis Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima the author notes that [with] music like 12 tone or serial music, no new changes were necessary to the establishment of the score, but when we see the rise of the Cageian indeterminate aesthetics, this became an interesting dilemma. Indeed, Penderecki took a strong interest in Cages different ways of approaching the passage of time within music. Beyond notation, the influence of Cage on Threnody is apparent in its original title 837, likely a reference to Cages 433. Regarding this title change, Sarah Wallin quotes Penderecki in the Anthology saying:[The piece] existed only in my imagination, in a somewhat abstract way. When Jan Krenz recorded it and I could listen to an actual performance, I was struck with the emotional charge of the work. I thought it would be a waste to condemn it to such anonymity, to those digits. I searched for associations and, in the end; I decided to dedicate it to the Hiroshima victims. (p.393) Though this rationale for this change sounds honest enough, according to Bannachs research the title change was made for far more selfish reasons:[Penderecki] only ended changing the name after a recommendation from a friend, who advised him that it would make a more emotional impact for his entering in the UNESCO Prize of the International Composers Jury. That change had an obvious and intended impact. The use of Hiroshima evokes so many emotions, but mostly of sheer horror, a kind of terror hitherto unknown by mankind, that of a nuclear annihilation.  Regardless of which of the reasons is true, the influence and council of the friend, Polish conductor Jan Krenz, is present in both accounts. In the year before writing Threnody, Penderecki won a series of composition prizes. Biographer Adrian Thomas attributes the success of these earlier works with the composers rapid advancement, distilling Stravinskian and Webernian choralism [] to Boulezian gestures. Thomas continues by saying that "though Penderecki never fully engaged with orthodox serial techniques," he did "absorb certain permutational procedures and explore textural writing" which leads to the full blown sonorisms of subsequent scores. Emanations (1958), with its two string orchestras tuned a semitone apart, paved the way for Threnody, which uses quartertone clusters. Within the canonic sections of Threnody Wallin notes the symmetrical organization of materials to be Webernian in principle as well.The influence of Stravinskian and Webernian choralism is further contextualized in Bannachs analysis, whereby he describes the division of the string orchestra up into different choirs in Threnody: Each choirs differential in range is about a third to a tritone from top voice of the choir to the bottom voice. Now, keep in mind, that while each choir is a collection of microtonal pitches, these choirs all overlap with each other to form a composite microtonal collection that spans from an Ab in the contrabasses to a high B natural in the first choir of violins. So all in all that is 52 instruments playing individual microtonal notes spanning a range of around 4 octaves. This, without a doubt, creates an incredible amount of force and tension when played. This tension caused by microtonal clusters is found the piece, and is enhanced with Pendereckis implementation of various timbral and Klangfarbenmelodie type effects.  The concept of klangfarbenmelodie or tone color melody is often credited to the Second Viennese School, in particular Arnold Schoenberg. Bannach asserts that timbre then truly became an independent component in the 1950s when Serialism became a prominent movement in classical music, from the likes of Stockhausen, Babbit, Boulez, and others. This focus on various timbres and the way they evolve in an acoustical space over time is the primary concern throughout Threnody. In the book To Cut the Gordian Knot: The Timbre System of Krzysztof Penderecki, author Danuta Mirka theorizes that Pendereckis interest in such topics may have been through the acoustician Mieczyslaw Drobner:It is likely that such a splendidly simplified image of the sound producing process was taken up by Penderecki from the teaching of Mieczyslaw Drobner, the eminent Polish acoustician and organologist. In 1958 Drobner moved from Lodi to Krakow to take the post of lecturer at Paristwowa Wyzsza Szkola Muzyczna, the school where Penderecki had recently finished his study in composition and was employed as an assistant. (p.436) Lastly, there is the possible influence of Edgard Varse. Wallin notes that: "Varses conception of music as spatialopened the door to music that centered not on melody, harmony, or counterpoint but on sound itselfComposers now wrote pieces whose material consists primarily of striking sound combinations that create interesting and novel textures, organized by gradual or sudden processes of change. Threnody is the embodiment of music which consists of striking sound combinations to create interesting and novel textures.