 [Image via Jonathan Harvey's Glasgow Trilogy, Hear and Now - BBC Radio 3]At the core of Mortuos Plango, Vivos Voco is the role of the great tenor bell at Winchester Cathedral. Not only is the recording of this bell tolling a primary sound source throughout the work but it also provides the text for the title and lyrics. The inscription on the bells exterior reads: Horas Avolantes Numero, Mortuos Plango: Vivos ad Preces Voco [I count the fleeting hours, I lament the dead: the living I call to prayer]. Composer Jonathan Harvey took the bells harmonic spectrum and examined it with the fast Fourier transform (FFT) program at IRCAM. The influence of the specific technology used, especially during these early days of computer music analysis, should not be overlooked. In this case Harvey, with the technical assistance of Stanley Haynes, realized the synthetic bell modulations and transformations on IRCAMs version of MusicV (originally created by Max Mathews in 1969).The second sound source, that of the choristers Latin singing, was then also synthesized from a live recording; however, this time using the program CHANT developed by Gerald Bennett and Xavier Rodet. The boy soprano heard on the recording was Harveys son Dominic who, according to author Mario Sibilia in his article Analysis and Listening Score of Mortuos plango, Vivos voco, was a chorister at Winchester Cathedral from 1975 to 1980 (the year Harvey received this commission by the Centre George Pompidou in Paris). The intangible connection a father has with the sound of his son is so personal that it had to have influenced him regarding how the vocal line was then treated. Furthermore, there is a strangely ironic aspect to what Harvey must have experienced; listening to words lamenting the dead coming from his still very much alive son, only to then gradually pull at the musical nature of the sons song through electronic manipulations until it has lost its human characteristics, effectively becoming dead.Scholars often go into great detail unpacking the electronic means undertaken by Harvey to create Mortuos plango, and rightly so given its place as a pioneering work of computer music. However, what is underplayed is the influence of the Anglican choral tradition. Though his later works reference a certain non-specific spirituality, Harvey spent many of his most formative years studying music at St. Johns College, University of Cambridge. The choir at St. Johns is among the most famous in England and has sung daily services in the College Chapel since the 1670s. Even if Harvey did not frequently attend chapel, it would be extremely unlikely that he would have been able to avoid its influence. In addition to Evensong six days a week, they also perform at a number of other well-known events throughout the academic year and have been recording extensively