 [Please click for full resolution-- Image via 7. Orchestral Idioms and Mass Effects after World War II]Micropolyphony was coined by composer Gyrgy Ligeti in the early 1960s to describe the application of canonic structures to large numbers of individual instrumental or vocal lines. A prime example would be his 1961 orchestral work Atmospheres, whereby a 48 part mirror canon is constructed with separate parts for each of the fourteen first violins, fourteen second violins, ten violas, and ten cellos. The effect is, according to Ligeti, that--[...]you cannot actually hear the polyphony, the canon. You hear a kind of impenetrable texture, something like a very densely woven cobweb. I have retained melodic lines in the process of composition, they are governed by rules as strict as Palestrina's or those of the Flemish school, but the rules of this polyphony are worked out by me. The polyphonic structure does not come through, you cannot hear it; it remains hidden in a microscopic, underwater world, to us inaudible. I call it micropolyphony (such a beautiful word!). (Bernard)Around the same time period other composers were experimenting with dense textures resulting from many independent instrumental or vocal lines. These included, most notably, Krzysztof Penderecki (ex. Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima) and Iannis Xenakis (ex. Pithoprakta). What separated Ligeti and his micropolyphony technique from his contemporaries was the means of achieving the pitch clusters. Penderecki produces his extensive elaborations on tone clusters by aleatoric means, often involving a multitude of glissandi effects with indeterminate repetitions of attacks and entrances. Xenakis achieves his sound-cloud textures through mathematical structures and probabilities, taking data derived from such equations to determine starting and ending pitches/attack times/durations, then transcribing them to music paper.Though the term "micropolyphony" is strongly tired to Ligeti, there are composers with earlier works utilizing similar means, as well as several composers afterwards who were directly influenced by Ligeti. To collect recommendations of specific individuals who have written micropolyphonic pieces I conducted a cursory search through the Oxford Music Online and JSTOR databases. Luis de Freitas Branco (1890-1955)  [Vathek] is remarkable particularly for its third variation: a fugato for strings in 59 parts that foreshadows Ligetian 'micropolyphony'. (Moody)Paul Dessau (1894-1979)  [Musik fr 15 Streichinstrumente's] exposition and recapitulation both comprise four