 [Image via Terry Riley Celebration, St George's Bristol & Bristol Old Vic | New music reviews, news & interviews]In C (1964) is considered to be the first major work of Minimalism in music. As with many, if not most, stylistic movements in Western music, the fine art world arrived there first. In France between 1947 and 1948, Yves Klein conceived his Monotone Symphony (1949, formally The Monotone-Silence Symphony) that consisted of a single 20-minute sustained chord followed by a 20-minute silence  a precedent to both La Monte Young's drone music and John Cage's 433. Other New York based artists soon followed suit, for example Frank Stella's Die Fahne Hoch! (1959), Ad Reinhardt's so-called "black" paintings of the 1960s, and Agnes Martin's early 1960s square canvases works that were covered in dense, minute and softly delineated graphite grids. Therefore, it is possible that one influence on the early minimalist composers was indeed not musical, but rather this artistic parallel.It is also possible that Terry Riley was reacting against other dominant compositional styles of the time, with these musics functioning as an influence not to compose in that way, but rather try the opposite. The key composers defining the musical scene in the early 1960s included figures like Elliott Carter, Luciano Berio, and Karlheinz Stockhausen. In the book Terry Riley's in C author Robert Carl emphasizes that the composition community of that era valued those who "pushed limits of fixed-score complexity, [regarding this] as the standard for 'advanced' composition." In the other direction was the unwavering experimentalism of John Cage who, as Carl notes, "had moved music into realms of noise and randomized activity that created often chaotic results." In C is distant to both aesthetics and takes an ideological stance of openness to achieve inclusion and expressive freedom, rather than the total Cageian freedom where human expression is often seen to interfere with how the experiment should naturally play out. Perhaps the most important influence on Riley when creating In C was the 1960s counter-cultural zeitgeist taking place in California. In C was written at the onset of this. However, there were precursors establishing the West Coast as a bastion of anti-Euro-centric thought and the anti-overly systemic institutionalization of composition. Decades earlier John Cage, Harry Partch, and Lou Harrison began to establish California as such. Carl also contributes this "Left Coast," maverick, progressive musical identity to Henry Cowell, stating "Cowell was a prodigious product of Bay Area bohemianism, a sort of musical 'wild child' whose development would have been far different elsewhere."This atmosphere lines up with Riley's musical background. Though both he and La Monte Young were graduates of the American academic system (completing their master's studies At UC Berkeley), neither seemed poised to or interested in entering academia. Rather, it was the connections with other composers while at Berkeley that may have informed Riley's musical direction. In addition to Young who, according to Carl, shared his ideas of "highly conceptual works in the orbit of Fluxus art," Riley also became friends with Loren Rush and Pauline Oliveros through his mentor Robert Erickson. Lastly, just the act of being an improvising musician could have been a great influence when writing In C. Riley has described the work as "closer to jazz and rock in its sound and in its presentation of a cosmic 'jam.'" Carl notes that in contrast to Young's more theoretical approach to composition, Riley "remained more of a jazzer in his outlook, playing saxophone and keyboards, and improvising as part of his practical, professional life." Furthermore, also while at Berkeley Riley joined Oliveros and Rush to form an improvisation trio, playing piano with the former on French horn and the latter on koto and percussion.