 [Image via Work of the week - Luigi Nono: Canti di vita e d'amore]Written for soprano and tenor soloists with orchestra, the easiest entry into a discussion of Luigi Nonos influences while composing Canti di vita e damore ("Songs of Life and Love") is perhaps through his treatment of the works instrumentation. From 1941 to 1945 he studied composition with Gian Francesco Malipiero at the Venice Conservatory where, according to biographer Gianmario Borio, there was an emphasis on vocal polyphony and the madrigal tradition. This interest in early vocal writing manifests itself in Canti di vita e damore through spatialization and the division of the orchestra into discrete choirs. Regarding the renaissance connection, John Irvine writes in the article Luigi Nonos Canti di vita e damore: New Phases of Development 1960-62: [] One can also sense Nono looking back on his Venetian heritage by, firstly, taking on the spatiomusical innovations of the Gabrielis (the placement of sounds in a particular space or acoustic) and secondly, that inspired by the highly chromatic music of Gesualdo (microtonal movement within the sounds themselves). It seems as if everything Nono does in his creative life takes Venice, and particularly the Giudecca, his home, as the chief poetic point of departure []Instruments are laid out on the score in groups of twelve which obviously facilitates Nono's desire to position all twelve tones, and their twelve intervening microtones, in some form of stratification across the instrumental sections. This concept of grouping his orchestra into 'choirs' of woodwind, brass, strings and percussion implies that each section will have its own unique functionality; and will accordingly give rise to music in which opposing groups are able to work antiphonally, as separate entities, with or against each other.Borio notes that in conjunction with the contrapuntal techniques of the Franco-Flemish School, which Nono had studied throughout his life, lies the influence of the dodecaphonic canons of Anton Webern and Luigi Dallapiccola. The music of Anton Webern, along with the other Second Viennese School composers (primarily Arnold Schoenberg), Igor Stravinsky, Bela Bartok, and Olivier Messiaen has been of particular interest to Nono since at least his years at the Venice Conservatory. Belonging to the previous generation of Italian composers, Luigi Dallapiccola and his music influenced Nono from the mid-1940s onward. Beyond dodecaphonic canons, Nono utilizes some of Dallapiccola's musical symbolism. For instance, author Bruce Durazzi in the article Musical Dialectics and the Opposition of Present and Future points out that the fratello motive from Dallapiccolas opera Il prigioniero (194448) signifies hope that conditions might improve. Nono has assigned Dallapiccolas motive of hope to tuned metal sheets in a number of works as late as Con Luigi Dallapiccola (1979) for six percussionists and live electronics. Durazzi follows this motivic relationship chronologically back through to the beginning of the final movement of Canti di vita e d'amore, stating: [After] the strong promise of a brighter future, the first sound in the orchestra is a twelve-note cluster played by bells. The predominance of bells and cymbals emphasizes the new-found sense of hope in the final movement and thus emphasizes the global progression of themes in the work.In Canti di vita e damore the Second Viennese School influence is seen most prominently via the rigorous organization of materials, especially pitches (as described in the discrete choirs quotation). Schoenberg, whose daughter Nono in fact married, also influenced Nonos decision to compose with activist themes at the core of his musical message. For instance, according to Durazzi, Nono's first publicly performed work was the Variazioni canoniche sulla serie dellop. 41 di Arnold Schnberg (1949), which refers to Schoenbergs Ode to Napoleon (widely understood as an anti-fascist work). Canti di vita e d'amore takes this social activism message and focuses on the threat posed by nuclear weapons.The relationship with the music of Stravinsky is notable through the shared use of what theorist Edward T. Cone calls stratification. Stratification means a sudden change in the music that makes the piece of music change dramatically, often incorporating a division of layers as the music progresses. This is heard most decisively in the first movement Sul Ponte di Hiroshima with Nono drawing on the instrumental choirs within the full orchestra to signal shifts, often linked to changes in tempo. The early influence of Bartok in the first movement is perhaps most evident with the emphasis on geometrically derived proportions. Irvine points out that-- Paradoxically, the greatest point of rest is where one might expect the climax of the work; at approximately the point of the 'Golden Section' (bars 80-95) in many ways typifying Nono's unconventional, even subversive musical mind. The inclusion of palindromes and number sequences to generate rhythms and durations, though seen in passages of Bartok, point to an influence of Messiaen as well, who has written extensively on the use of these compositional techniques.Canti di vita e d'amore also signals an important major departure from the typical serial techniques for Nono. Durazzi cites a verbal note from Nono stating that this work would no longer use complete serial series, but instead would be composed of campi sonori (sounding fields) or fascie sonori (sounding bands) built upon collections of a few basic intervals. Durazzi goes on to explain how Nono utilizes this new way of thinking in Canti di vita e d'amore:The pitch material is organized in various ways to construct campi sonori, normally in the form of tone clusters that exhaust a given collection of pitches according to some pattern: quarter- tone clusters of up to twenty-four notes, semitone clusters of up to twelve notes, whole-tone clusters of up to six notes, and occasionally complementary groupings of three-note cells of pitch-class set type [0,1,4]. The resulting textures produced by the campi sonori are, as one might imagine, densely saturated walls of sound covering the quarter-tone steps within a larger interval. The immediate historic comparison would be to the sound-clouds of Iannis Xenakis (ex. Pithoprakta, 1956), micropolyphony of Gyorgy Ligeti (ex. Apparitions, 1958-1959), and the tone clusters of Krzysztof Penderecki (ex. Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima, 1960). Though all of these works are precursors, it is unclear how much their concepts influenced Nono's writing in Canti di vita e d'amore. One primary distinction is the use of independent lines. Though achieved through different means (aleatory vs. notated polyphony), this feature unifies Xenakis, Ligeti, and Penderecki. Nono uses the same large scale divisi and pitch distribution, but often without the independent, individualized movements within each divisi texture. It is possible that the similarities between all of these works stem from a late 1950s  early 1960s, increase in textual complexity zeitgeist, rather than peer influence. Nevertheless, some of the relationships are uncanny. Nono has written about his lifelong study of Italian Renaissance choral composers Gabrieli and Gesualdo with regard to their use of spatialization, as well as figures from the Franco-Flemish School. Ligeti attributes much of the influence for his micropolyphony technique, especially as used in Lux Aeterna and Requiem, to Johannes Ockeghem, arguably the most famous composer of the Franco-Flemish School. Another specific connection between Canti di vita e d'amore and Ligeti's music is the method of pitch choice between each individual instrument. In Irvine's analysis he highlights that in the first movement: Six notes are distributed between the violins in a form of cross fertilization; each entry determined by successive notes from the first violin part. This creates a web of sound producing a strikingly referential effect, in that all the parts are here alluding to one another. A technique similar to that used by Gyorgy Ligeti in his Chamber Concerto (1969-70). Next, there is the issue of shared programmatic theme. Penderecki's Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima was completed just two years before Nono's Canti di vita e d'amore, whose first movement utilizes text from the book To Be or Not To Be: Diary of Hiroshima and Nagasaki by Gunther Anders. In Nono's defense, though composed later, Canti di vita e d'amore shows evidence of the chosen text being integral to the understanding of the work. On the other hand, Penderecki had already completed and premiered Threnody, originally called 8'37" (at times also 8'26") as perhaps a nod to John Cage's 4'33", before deciding to dedicate the work to the victims of Hiroshima. It is likely that because Nono and Penderecki's compositions are so close in date, Nono had already selected his text and begun the piece before Penderecki changed his work's title.Regarding text, though not technically a musical influence, the choice of text has shaped the composition and subsequent understanding of Canti di vita e d'amore. For instance, the use of excerpts from Anders' To Be or Not To Be: Diary of Hiroshima and Nagasaki was so critical to the identity of the work that not only did Nono use it for the composition's subtitle (Sul ponte di Hiroshima // On the Bridge of Hiroshima), but actually wrote into the score the lines beyond what he set for the voices as a 'guide' to the conductor and players. The second movement, Djamila Boupacha, moves from suffering on a massive scale represented by the full ensemble to suffering on an individual scale. Here Nono sets a poem by Jesus Lopez Pacheco in which the tortured Algerian student of the title begs: "to see things like a child" and to be free from "this night of blood, this endless mud." Nono scores this for solo soprano (unaccompanied), allowing the audience to impose the girl from the text onto the vocalist. The last movement Tu is set to the words of Cesare Pavese and anticipates a new dawn for society. According to Borio, Nono redefined Utopia through his own concepts of other ways of listening and possible infinities. This desire to create a new, more just society is at the core Canti di vita e d'amore and was likely influenced by Nono's political background. Borio notes that the Nazi occupation and the Italian Resistance were fundamental to Nono's general development. In 1952 the composer became a member of the Italian Communist Party, and as Durazzi mentions, Canti represents Nono's move away from a kind of leftist idealism and toward more concrete forms of social and political activism. Lastly, there is the influence of Nono's close friends Bruno Maderna and Emilio Vedova. Borio writes that meeting Maderna in 1946 was musically critical for Nono, as they formed a small community in Venice who, through the examination of the contrapuntal, harmonic and formal foundations of European art music, aimed to develop a new musical language. Maderna's criticisms of integral serialism may have led to Nono's new approach to pitch (campi sonori) in Canti di vita e d'amore. Maderna saw composers relying on serial techniques to establish a divide between their music and pre-WWII classical traditions. He went on to say in an interview with Leonardo Pinzuati:There never has been any zero year in music, just as there can never be any zero year of culture. It would be as though someone reaching the age of thirty were to say 'my life is now beginning'! That sounds all very well, but the preceding years still happened, he still lived them, with all the experiences and errors.Immediately before working on Canti di vita e d'amore, Nono was in residence at the Studio di Fonologia Musicale RAI in Milan composing an electronic piece entitled Omaggio a Emilio Vedova. Vedova, an artist by trade, shared similar political leanings with Nono and they both collaborated on many occasions. According to Irvine, Omaggio a Emilio Vedova contains striking similarities in gesture to the first movement of Canti di vita e d'amore; indeed the first 20 seconds of the Omaggio seem like a study for the opening 20 seconds of the Canti. It is then not out of the question that, because the opening musical material of both works dealt with the same concepts, Nono (perhaps even unconsciously) was influenced by his memories and experiences with Vedova while writing Canti.