 I touched upon this briefly in Have composers other than Ligeti used micropolyphony?What separated Ligeti and his micropolyphony technique from his contemporaries was the means of achieving the pitch clusters. Penderecki produces his extensive elaborations on tone clusters by aleatoric means, often involving a multitude of glissandi effects with indeterminate repetitions of attacks and entrances.To examine this comparison closer I will be using Ligeti's Lux Aeterna (1966) for 16 solo singers and Penderecki's Threnody (1960) for 52 string instruments as examples. The Ligeti Requiem is a fantastic micropolyphonic piece. However, with an instrumentation consisting of 3 flutes, 2 piccolos, 3 oboes, 1 English horn, 3 clarinets, 1 bass clarinet, 1 contrabass clarinet, 1 E-flat clarinet, 2 bassoons, 1 contrabassoon, 5 French horns, 3 trumpets, 1 bass trumpet, 1 trombone, 1 bass trombone, 1 contrabass trombone, 1 tuba, percussion (glockenspiel, xylophone, snare drum, bass drum, suspended cymbal, tamtam, slapstick, tambourine), 1 celesta, 1 harpsichord, 1 harp, 26 violins, 12 violas, 10 cellos, 8 double basses, chorus, soprano soloist, and mezzo-soprano soloist it can be difficult to see exactly what is going on form-wise. In particular, the visual switch between examining an individual line (often each performer on a separate staff in the score) and examining the resulting full texture can be tricky. Terminology: At the most basic level there are different terms used to describe the pitch clustering in Ligeti's and Penderecki's large-scale works of the 1960s. Ligeti coined the term micropolyphony when discussing the processes of his music, and the term, as well as the technique, has become inextricably linked to him. The impact of this technique (polyphonic writing applied to a vast number of individual instruments or voices) in modern music is substantial. Works drawing upon similar means after 1960 are immediately thought as Ligetian in nature regardless of the influence. Works of earlier eras are even now being contextualized as proto-Ligetian micropolyphony. Sound mass is a more vague term, as it describes the resulting texture and not the specific technique required to produce it. Therefore, sound mass is not tied to any one composer the same way that micropolyphony is. Sound mass has been used to describe sections of a number of works by Ligeti, Penderecki, Xenakis, Lutosawski, Ives, Stockhausen, Crumb, as well as others. Another way of thinking about it is that micropolyphonic compositions will likely result in a sound mass texture, but not all sound mass textures require micropolyphonic compositional techniques.Functionality in Lux Aeterna: In the opening of the piece Ligeti constructs a cantus firmus in measures 1-24 using the pitch F as the central note of the trichord E-flat, F, and A-flat (or {0,2,5} for those of you who deal in Babbitt-style pitch classes). From measure 8 to measure 24, the trichord is always present regardless of other activity. In the essay Unlocking the Mystery in Ligeti's Lux Aeterna author Jeremiah Selvey notes the various transpositions of the {0,2,5} chord or Ligeti chord as a key feature in understanding the structure. The temporal component of micropolyphony, as seen in the opening, is achieved through a massive polyrhythmic canon. Here each voice is assigned a rhythmic denominator as to deny unison attacks between parts. For instance, the basic building block of soprano 1 is tuplet 16th notes, soprano 2 is quintuplet 16th notes, soprano 3 is straight-16th notes, and so on. Through the use of these differing localized polyrhythms Ligeti is able to ensure this sound mass effect. No unifying meter is palpable, nor is any individual's contrapuntal motion susceptible to isolated listening during the tutti sections. Though often compared to the great polyphonic works of the Renaissance, the rigorous application of pre-compositional rules is perceived by listeners in a fundamentally different way. The melodic lines governed by strict procedures in Ockeghem, Palestrina, and the like are done so in order to arrive at an optimal texture where all voices may be aurally identified by their role. As more and more voices are given independent lines (especially with the highly chromatic vertical sonorities) there is a tipping point where, as Ligeti puts it: The polyphonic structure does not come through, you cannot hear it; it remains hidden in a microscopic, underwater world, to us inaudible.Functionality in Threnody: Taking a look at the score, the opening for Threnody does not reveal a metrically strict texture made up of fully notated rhythms. Rather, Penderecki is able to achieve similar saturated pitch clusters through the differences in musical interpretation within a large group. The lack of temporal precision inherent in the time-line notation, coupled with the indeterminate pitch (as high as possible) creates performed complexity far exceeding what can be seen on the page. Perhaps the best way to contextualize the differences in compositional approach is top down (Penderecki) vs. bottom up (Ligeti). Penderecki deconstructs what is required to create sound masses. In the case of Threnody, these textures could be arrived at from painstakingly notated individual parts, but in the end his practice begs the question: What is the point of nuanced individual lines when (as Ligeti points out) the particularities of the polyphonic structure become inaudible? Why compose for the individual (micro) when you can more directly achieve arguably the same ensemble sound (macro)?The often exacting rhythms and difficult harmonies practically invite slip-ups within even the most seasoned groups performing Lux Aeterna. The paradoxical part is that these small inaccuracies that accompany live performance make little to no difference in the perceived effect of the sound masses due to the density and chromatic saturation of the texture. Perfect, machine-like intonation would be no better (and perhaps, ironically, much worse) at creating the desired effect. Penderecki takes this to the next logical place and essentially composes the human differences of interpretation and performance practice in Threnody. Without being told exactly when to re-articulate the bow, or exactly what pitch to play, and without the familiar structure of measures/meters; natural microscopic differences in playing and improvisation contribute to the same saturation for Threnody that is heard in Lux Aeterna.The differentiation between these two compositional methodologies is therefore beyond labels and the aesthetics of notation, it is a matter of decision making. For Ligeti's micropolyphony the composer carefully instructs each performer on the changing musical parameters at any given time. For Penderecki's sound masses the composer provides a loose shape and the performers make their own decisions (to an extent) to achieve the shape.