 The voice in Steve Reich's early tape work Come out (1966) was Donald Hamm, one of the six boys arrested in the 1964 Harlem riots. Reich composed the piece as part of a Town Hall benefit to gain a retrial for those boys involved. The composer had come across a recording of Hamm describing his attempts to get medical attention after being beaten by the police. In the article Listening Subjects: Semiotics, Psychoanalysis, and the Music of John Adams and Steve Reich author David Schwarz details the audio of the youth trying to squeeze his wounds to show blood. Accordingly, the piece begins with a taped voice saying I had to like open the bruise up and let some of the bruise blood come out to show them (0:00-0:005). After a two-second silence (0:05-0:07), the passage is repeated (0:07-0:12); after another two second silence (0:12-0:14), the passage is repeated again (0:14-0:19). For the rest of the piece, the listener moves into the spoken voice, through the repetition and phase manipulation of shorter and shorter phrases and words from the text with which the piece began: come out to show them, to show them, come out. As in It's Gonna Rain, the repetition of come out sounds like a direct address to the listener, an imperative.The inherently musical voice of Donald Hamm, specifically Hamm's distinctive rhythmic/melodic pronunciation of the phrase come out to show them, led Reich to utilize the same phasing process as seen in It's Gonna Rain (1965). Like It's Gonna Rain, Come Out begins with a loop of the phrase as a single channel recorded on a whole reel. Next, the composer records the same loop on channel 2, carefully lining them up to ensure the two channels are in unison. Soon thereafter the composer allows one of the parts to phase forward (or the other to phase backward depending on your point of aural focus). According to the 1971 interview with Michael Nyman, this was achieved by Reich gradually holding the supply reel of the recording machine back with his thumb. Reich states, I was literally slowing it down, but at such an imperceptible rate that you can't hear. At the point where the two-channel relationship 'Come out to show them' has separated into 'come out-come out/ show them-show them', approximately two quavers away by the composer's estimate, he goes on to make a loop from it too. To effectively divide the two channels into four, then finally four into eight 'voices' Reich repeats the phasing process. First, he feeds the current two channel phase into channel 1, again holding it back with his thumb so that it is four quavers away from the original sound and can be heard as a series of equal beats so that it is quite distinct melodically. Next, Reich splices together the two-voice tape with the four-voice tape, then divides it again into eight voices. At this point the voices are, according to Reich, separated it by just a demisemiquaver, so that the whole thing began to shake, then just faded it out and again put those two takes together. So there's absolutely no manipulation of the timbre, no manipulation of the tape.This point of not tampering with the material itself is at the core of Reich's process pieces. In fact, he views these semantically as early speech works, not works of electronic music because they are based entirely on actually vocal sounds, not on electronically produced tones. Also in Music as a Gradual Process: Part I Reich stated:In a nutshell, all the bad things I've had to say about electronic music have to do with electronically generated sounds, have to do with oscillator-based music  I still use electronic organs, but they're always mixed with instruments or voices. I have no such ambiguity about [using] the voice.It is curious that Reich uses the term ambiguity to describe his hesitation, or more succinctly, the lack of hesitation to work with the human voice. Ambiguity becomes a mode of expressiveness with Come Out, but also among other tape and electronic music works with speech/language elements. With such a strong political implication at first, the repetition of phrase progressively degrades its meaning, becoming ambiguous and obscured. David Schwartz writes of this in the article Semiotics, Psychoanalysis, and the Music of John Adams and Steve Reich, saying that Come Out [uses] repetition obsessively to strip meaning just as it is about to take shape. Is Reich, in essence, making Hamm's recorded speech less poignant, more clinical? It could be understood that Hamm's recorded statement, though highly charged with emotion, can only be taken literally, as it entails a first person account of an event. By excerpting the text down to a fragment, Reich is inviting a multitude of interpretations. Listeners can take in the music of Come Out as just that, Absolute Music consisting of harmonic, melodic, and polyrhythmic combinations of a found sound. By using the impersonal technique of phasing, the moment-to-moment relationships resulting here are mostly unforeseen even by the composer. Rather than craft the text-setting to play up its programmatic aspects, Reich merely sets things into motion, in part relinquishing control over the decaying intelligibility of Hamm's message, and by extension the listener's connection with the politicized message.