 It is true that child prodigies get a lot of publicity, largely overshadowing the late bloomers. Honestly, I had a hard time finding counter examples, in part due to the vagueness of early musical training throughout biographies. Within classical music what is considered a late start is still absurdly young when compared to many other fields of study. As a result, a number of articles listing famous musicians who started late consider age 10 as ancient and impossibly disadvantaged in pursing a career as a world class concert composer or concertizing classical musician. I disagree with this perpetuated belief that after a certain age one will not be able to become a professional musician, but unfortunately this is a self-fulfilling prophesy. After a bit of research into figures who are commonly mentioned as late bloomers through various anecdotes and classroom asides, it turns out that often these individuals still had some formal musical training during their childhood. The anecdotes fail to emphasize this and focus on the point (usually late teens) where the musicians becomes serious about his or her craft and seeks highly rigorous training. Iannis Xenakis would fall into this category.As for acclaimed composers and instrumentalists who, as far as I can tell, had no dedicated musical study until age 18+ here is one example--Aram Khachaturian (1903  1978)Born and raised in Tbilisi, the multicultural capital of Georgia, Khachaturian moved to Moscow in 1921 following the Sovietization of the Caucasus. Without prior music training, he enrolled in the Gnessin Musical Institute, subsequently studying at the Moscow Conservatory in the class of Nikolai Myaskovsky, among others. His first major work, the Piano Concerto (1936), popularized his name within and outside the Soviet Union. It was followed by the Violin Concerto (1940) and the Cello Concerto (1946). His other significant compositions include the Masquerade Suite (1941), the Anthem of the Armenian SSR (1944), three symphonies (1935, 1943, 1947), and around 25 film scores. Khachaturian is best known for his ballet musicGayane (1942) and Spartacus (1954). His most popular piece, the "Sabre Dance" from Gayane, has been used extensively in popular culture and has been covered by a number of musicians worldwide. His style is "characterized by colorful harmonies, captivating rhythms, virtuosity, improvisations, and sensuous melodies."https://youtu.be/gqg3l3r_DRI