 Image via http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/... Johann Sebastian Bach certainly did consume alcohol and, though I am not sure if you are thinking of illicit drugs today, he did take in quite a bit of caffeine daily in the form of coffee.Beer and WineJohn Eliot Gardiner, famed Bach conductor and president of the Bach-Archiv Leipzig, authored a book in 2013 emphasizing that the composer was not some sort of saintly figure above common indulgences. In Bach: Music in the Castle of Heaven Gardiner writes of J.S. Bach's school boy days at Eisenach:[...] Research begun in the 1930s in the town archives by Hermann Helmbold, and in the 1990s by Rainer Kaiser, paints a very different picture, suggesting that the Eisenach boys of the time were typical ruffians: rowdy, subversive, thuggish, beer- and wine-loving, girl-chasing, known for breaking windows and brandishing their daggers to impress.It seems that in adulthood the composer's penchant to imbibe did not at all subside. Gardiner details one event where communal inebriation was even a goal of the evening for Bach, in this case to gain information regarding a musical post:[... This] rosy image could have been shattered when Bach and Kuhnau met face to face in April 1716 as joint assessor of a new organ in Halle. We have a detailed menu of the sumptuous dinner that they consumed at the Golden Ring tavern, which together with the lavish quantity of wine and beer set before them, may have been enough to loosen Kuhnau's tongue as to the pitfalls of the job [...]Furthermore, in 2014 there was an event, Bachfest: Bach and Beer, where historian Bob Winn, noted beer authority Jay R. Brooks, and scholar/pianist Susan Waterfall covered life in early 18th century Germany, an overview of Bachs life, and beer making in Bachs time. On their webpage the organizers state: "J. S. Bach enjoyed life enormously, and this certainly included beer drinking. He was often paid in beer."Coffee Though Bach may have maintained a fondness for alcohol, his true liquid vice was coffee. In fact, he was such a coffee aficionado that he even composed a large form comic work about it, the closest the composer ever came to writing an opera. Schweigt stille, plaudert nicht BWV 211, also known as the Coffee Cantata, is a secular cantata composed between 1732-1735 and functions as a satirical commentary telling of coffee addition. Blair Johnston summarizes the plot in the work's AllMusic entry:The citizens of Leipzig, the city that Bach called home from 1723 on, were by all accounts especially enamored of this new, stimulating, and as some people of the time felt, dangerous beverage; in the Coffee Cantata, a concerned Leipzig father seeks to break his daughter from her addiction to it. Finally, by threat of preventing her from marrying, he succeeds in doing so; but after he leaves to find a husband for her, she turns full circle and proclaims that no suitor need bother her unless he is willing to insert a clause into the marriage contract that she can make coffee whenever and however she pleases! Lastly, it appears that the work was premiered by The Collegium Musicum, an ensemble conducted by Bach and based in a storied Zimmermans coffee house in Leipzig, Germany. The libretto was written by Christian Friedrich Henrici, known as Picander, and features lines like-- "If I couldn't, three times a day, be allowed to drink my little cup of coffee, in my anguish I will turn into a shriveled-up roast goat".