 I touched upon this briefly in Have composers other than Ligeti used micropolyphony?What separated Ligeti and his micropolyphony technique from his contemporaries was the means of achieving the pitch clusters. Penderecki produces his extensive elaborations on tone clusters by aleatoric means, often involving a multitude of glissandi effects with indeterminate repetitions of attacks and entrances.To examine this comparison closer I will be using Ligeti's Lux Aeterna (1966) for 16 solo singers and Penderecki's Threnody (1960) for 52 string instruments as examples. The Ligeti Requiem is a fantastic micropolyphonic piece. However, with an instrumentation consisting of 3 flutes, 2 piccolos, 3 oboes, 1 English horn, 3 clarinets, 1 bass clarinet, 1 contrabass clarinet, 1 E-flat clarinet, 2 bassoons, 1 contrabassoon, 5 French horns, 3 trumpets, 1 bass trumpet, 1 trombone, 1 bass trombone, 1 contrabass trombone, 1 tuba, percussion (glockenspiel, xylophone, snare drum, bass drum, suspended cymbal, tamtam, slapstick, tambourine), 1 celesta, 1 harpsichord, 1 harp, 26 violins, 12 violas, 10 cellos, 8 double basses, chorus, soprano soloist, and mezzo-soprano soloist it can be difficult to see exactly what is going on form-wise. In particular, the visual switch between examining an individual line (often each performer on a separate staff in the score) and examining the resulting full texture can be tricky. Terminology: At the most basic level there are different terms used to describe the pitch clustering in Ligeti's and Penderecki's large-scale works of the 1960s. Ligeti coined the term micropolyphony when discussing the processes of his music, and the term, as well as the technique, has become inextricably linked to him. The impact of this technique (polyphonic writing applied to a vast number of individual instruments or voices) in modern music is substantial. Works drawing upon similar means after 1960 are immediately thought as Ligetian in nature regardless of the influence. Works of earlier eras are even now being contextualized as proto-Ligetian micropolyphony. Sound mass is a more vague term, as it describes the resulting texture and not the specific technique required to produce it. Therefore, sound mass is not tied to any one composer the same way that micropolyphony is. Sound mass has been used to describe sections of a number of works by Ligeti, Penderecki, Xenakis, Lutosawski, Ives, Stockhausen, Crumb, as well as others. Another way of thinking about it is that micropolyphonic compositions will likely result in a sound mass texture, but not all sound mass textures require micropolyphonic compositional techniques.Functionality in Lux Aeterna: In the opening of the piece Ligeti constructs a cantus firmus in measures 1-24 using the pitch F as the central note of the trichord E-flat, F, and A-flat (or {0,2,5} for those of you who deal in Babbitt-style pitch classes). From measure 8 to measure 24, the trichord is always present regardless of other activity. In the essay Unlocking the Mystery in Ligeti's Lux Aeterna author Jeremiah Selvey notes the various transpositions of the {0,2,5} chord or Ligeti chord as a key feature in understanding the structure. The temporal component of micropolyphony, as seen in the opening, is achieved through a massive polyrhythmic canon. Here each voice is assigned a rhythmic denominator as to deny unison attacks between parts. For instance, the basic building block of soprano 1 is tuplet