 [Image via Composers :: Philharmonia Orchestra]The term "follow" caries an implication that the composers are currently still active. For example, you might follow a composer's works by attending the premiers or searching for the latest recordings. Neo-classicism within Western music history is often contextualized as a trend arising in the 1920s where composers displayed a renewed interest in the formal clarity characteristic of the 17th-18th centuries. This was often a reaction against the "excessive" orchestration of the late 19thcentury Romantics. Though I am sure there are still many significant composers today who are concerned with utilizing clarity of form, their aesthetic choices are far less referential to classical genres. As a contrast, the most notable neo-classical composers made direct reference to 17th-18th century forms and figures. For instance, Sergei Prokofiev's Symphony No. 1 in D major (Op. 25) "Classical Symphony" of 1917 is written in loose imitation of the style of Haydn (and to a lesser extent, Mozart). Igor Stravinsky's ballet Pulcinella of 1920, typically regarded as the textbook example of neo-classicism, is a commentary on the commedia dell'arte libretto and music composed by Giovanni Pergolesi. Though the popularity of neo-classicism peaked in the 1920s, its precursors and influence extends several decades in either direction. I am still unaware of any contemporary composers today who would self-identify as strict neo-classicists, however, a handful have certainly dabbled in this tradition for past works. To collect recommendations of specific individuals who have written neo-classical pieces I conducted a cursory search through the Oxford Music Online database. Below are figures and key works to look into, ordered chronologically from most recent.Michael Torke (1961)  He continued his exploration of 19th-century genres with the piano concerto Bronze (1990), of which he gave the premire[...] (Chute)Paul Moravec (1957- )  A prolific composer, he combines a respect for and mastery of traditional formal and harmonic structures with a driving individuality; his style can best be described as a fluent, idiomatic, but unusually intense neo-classicism. (Page)John Harbison (1938- )  The works from his earliest period show the dual influences of serialism and Stravinskian neo-classicism. (St George)Henryk Grecki (1933-2010)  He revealed the extremes of his musical temperament in the savaged neo-classicism of the Sonata for Two Violins (1957), which contains potent dynamic and rhythmic contrasts as well as displaying a taste for the grotesque that would resurface over 30 years later. (Thomas)Martin Boykan (1931- )  Boykan's mature style is atonal and reflects the influences of Webern and the late music of Stravinsky, the respective subjects of his two most important articles (Neoclassicism and the late Stravinsky, PNM, i/2, 1963, p.155, and The Webern Concerto Revisited, Proceedings of the American Society of University Composers, iii, 1970, p.74). (Gilbert)Jacob Druckman (1928-1996)  Druckmans earliest published works, such as Divertimento (1950), tend towards neo-classicism. (Clarkson)Ben Johnston (1926- )  Johnstons reputation has rested primarily on his work in microtonality. However, his earlier music was in equal temperament, with a tendency towards neo-classicism (Septet, the early piano pieces)[...] (Kassel)Lukas Foss(1922-2009)  With the more conservative musical taste of the 1980s and 90s, Foss revisited the neo-classicism and Americana of his first period, composing again in traditional instrumental and choral genres, but not forgetting the experimental techniques of his second period. In his American Cantata (1976) he strove to be as crazy as I was in my avant-garde music and yet tonal. His guitar concerto, American Landscapes, combines folk guitar styles and tunes with novel plucking and percussion techniques in the solo part. Similarly, in the wistful and antiquarian Renaissance Concerto, the solo flutes key clicks add percussive effect. (Chase)Leonard Bernstein (1918-1990)  [Choreographer] Robbins included social dances, which Bernstein reflected in the score [West Side Story and Fancy Free] with big band rhythms, some block scoring, and blues inflections, tied together with a Copland-like musical stance and neo-classicism heard in many concert works in the 1940s. (Laird)Arthur Berger (1912-2003)  [...]The diatonic skeleton of his music provided a connection with Stravinskian neo-classicism; indeed, Babbitt used the term diatonic Webern in a review of the Duo for cello and piano (1951) and Berger himself hinted at a merging of the two styles in his work when he described the Chamber Music for 13 players (1956) as neoclassic twelve-tone. (Kaufman)Samuel Barber (1910-1981)  The vein of American neo-classicism that entered his music in the 1940s, in such works as the Piano Sonata (1949), refined his style without changing it fundamentally. (Griffiths)Lennox Berkeley (1903-1989)  The score [Jonah] is permeated with Stravinskian neo-classicism  in some ways it seems to anticipate The Rakes Progress  and its construction in separate numbers derives from the Bach passions and cantatas. (Dickinson)William Walton (1902-1983)  []Faade (19212) [...]won the composer a reputation for wit and iconoclasm and