 [image via John Zorn 60th Birthday, Jazz on 3 - BBC Radio 3] John Zorn's Snagglepuss is perhaps the epitome of polystylism amongst concert works in the late twentieth century. With polystylism, as utilized by Zorn, the influences are necessarily clear in order to provide the listener with a sense of what is being referenced. Furthermore, in Snagglepuss each stylistic outburst must be instantly recognizable, because in order to function as an outburst the durations are inherently quite short. Speed is a crucial factor for Zorn and in the 1998 book John Zorn: Itinerari Oltre Il Suono he said: I believe that in a technological situation like the present one, where we are exposed to thousands of stimuli and in which information moves faster and faster, it is necessary to keep up with these things: it is a way of life and of thinking and we have to come to terms with it.Unlike other post-modern compositions drawing upon many diverse sources ironically, Zorn's inclusion of each musical genre is out of genuine admiration. This admiration is evidenced in his prolific recording output, whereby over decades he has released albums focusing on each of the genres he then references in his polystylistic compositions. In the article Nine Aspects of Beauty Appropriation, Lindsay Vickery outlines how these outbursts constitute the form of the work:In the Naked City work Snagglepuss (1989) the band flips through 26 changes in the Space of 2 minutes and 14 seconds. Their performance takes in a minimum of 15 styles of ranging from Curtis Mayfield, to TV themes, Thrash and the visual instruction Drunk falls Downstairs. The players must use all of their skill to make live transitions that are both abrupt and smooth, contrasting but homogenous. They are taking the sample culture made possible through electronic manipulation and drawing it back into the human domain. Naked City celebrates a kind of Pop culture exuberance or Culture Jamming at its most virtuosic.To elaborate on Vickery's observations, other likely influences on Zorn during the creation of Snagglepuss include hardcore, film scores, and free jazz. Japanese vocalist Yamataka Eye contributed to the album Naked City, as well as a number of other Zorn projects. Eye's hardcore/noise specialization brought a raw intensity that hits a nerve with the listener in a way purely instrumental music is unable to due to the inextricable humanity of the voice. In the 2002 documentary A Bookshelf On Top of the Sky: 12 Stories About John Zorn it is clear from the performances and interviews that Zorn had gone through a phase he describes as obsessed with the hardcore genre. In the album notes, Zorn gives special thanks Japanese-US-UK Hardcore Triangle, Extreme Noise Terror, Agnostic Front, and Napalm Death.Similarly, Zorn has expressed a parallel obsession with cinema, particularly the films of Jean Luc Godard and the French New Wave. Earlier Zorn albums confront this influence in more detail such as Godard (1985), as well as other cinematic genres like the spaghetti western via reworking Ennio Morricone's The Big Gundown. The presence of film music in the album Naked City also goes beyond Snagglepuss with other tracks being covers like "The Sicilian Clan" (Ennio Morricone), "A Shot in the Dark" (Henry Mancini), "Chinatown" (Jerry Goldsmith), and "The James Bond Theme" (John Barry). In A Bookshelf On Top of the Sky, Zorn mentions that "Bernard Herrmann is one of my favorite composers, and there is an element of Bernard Herrmann in almost all of my music. "At the onset of his professional career, Zorn was most well known for his free jazz efforts. In Snagglepuss the role of free jazz is notable and, when combine with the noise music of Yamataka Eye, creates the most memorable passages from the unrelenting, visceral nature of the sound. In a 1998 interview with Wilkowski in Rockers, Jazzbos & Visionaries, Zorn mentions that he started playing the saxophone after discovering Anthony Braxton's album For Alto(1969), a seminal recording with each track dedicated to a groundbreaking icon of the avant garde movement (John Cage, Cecil Taylor, Leroy Jenkins, etc). Of this group of free jazz innovators, Zorns music is most closely associated with Ornette Coleman, whose 1960 album Free Jazz gave rise to the term. In addition to the Ornette Coleman cover of Lonely Woman on Naked City, Zorn recorded the album Spy vs Spy: The Music of Ornette Colemanin 1989 featuring the compositions of Coleman performed in the brief intense style of Zorn's hardcore miniatures (akin to the outbursts in Snagglepuss).In A Bookshelf On Top of the Sky, Zorn expressed that he has for a long time been influenced by Charles Ives and cartoon music, especially the work of Carl Stalling of Wile Coyote and The Roadrunner notability. According to Zorn, both Ives and Stalling display a level playing field for every genre to coexist in, no style or practice is used in a way to imply elitism or division between low art and high art.Lastly, there is the possibility that Zorn was indeed influenced by other composers working with polystylism. In the 1971 essay "Polystylistic Tendencies in Modern Music" author Alfred Schnittke, himself considered to be a leading figure in polystylism, cites the a number of composers utilizing this concept in their work(s). Of these I can hear similarities between Luciano Berio (the third movement of his Sinfonia), Alfred Schnittke (Concerto Grosso no.1), Mauricio Kagel (Ludwig van), Carl Orff (Carmina Burana), Krzysztof Penderecki (St. Luke Passion), Karlheinz Stockhausen (Hymen), and Igor Stravinsky (Pulcinella). Zorn describes in A Bookshelf On Top of the Sky an affinity for block form as used by Stravinsky and later Stockhausen. Zorn calls this "moment form, where each moment is complete in itself, like building blocks. And the moments are positioned one after another in a linear fashion so it ends up telling a story."After the recording of the band's debut Naked City others influences would resurface on the band's next full-length release, Grand Guignol (1992), which also included performances of works by Claude Debussy, Alexander Scriabin, Orlande de Lassus, and Olivier Messiaen. It is unclear of much the musics of these composers influenced the construction of Snagglepuss.