 [image via Georg Friedrich Haas] The clearest compositional influence seen in Georg Friedrich Haas' Limited Approximations (2010) is Ivan Wyschnegradsky's arc-en-ciel (1956).Limited Approximations was premiered at Donaueschingen (Germany) 17 October 2010 and programmed in a concert immediately following a performance of  arc-en-ciel. In his paper Some Theoretical Attributes of 72-tone Equal Temperament and Their Realization in Georg Friedrich Haas' limited approximations, Will Mason also details the significance of composer Ivan Wyschnegradsky's arc-en-cielas a historical precursor in the six piano 72 EDO realm. Mason contextualizes Limited Approximations as, in part, a homage to Wyschnegradsky and mentions Haas' use of Wyschnegradskys method of modulation in quarter-tone pitch space and his idiosyncratic use of a chord of stacked fourths and tritones. In the program note (Universal Edition), Haas also cites the specific influence of Wyschnegradsky on Limited Approximations: At the end, a quotation from Ivan Vishnegradskys harmonies (against the relics of an overtone chord in the strings)  not with the clarity of his composition arc-en-ciel (I was able to premire this work for 6 pianos tuned in twelfth-tone intervals in 1988) but in the clouding over of twelfth-tone chords gliding gently towards the heavens. Even this approximation is only a limited one.Beyond the specifics of arc-en-ciel, Haas was also greatly influenced by the composer's musical philosophies, stating in Balint A. Varga's 2013 book Three Questions for Sixty-Five Composers: Ivan Wyschnegradsky's espaces non-octaviants (non-octaviating spaces) may not be a composition, merely a textural principle. Still  this principle has exerted a decisive influence on my musical thinking: networks of intervals which stretch over the entire audible space and extend (virtually) into the no longer audible realm (ultra- and infrasound). The octaves loses in the process the function it possessed up to that point in music history. The musics of Gyorgy Ligeti and Giacinto Scelsi are also audible influences in the composition of Limited Approximations. For Ligeti it is via the dense textures created in the orchestra by means of individual lines. Music critic Ung-Aang Talay also notes in the Bangkok Post the relationship between Haas' treatment of the orchestra and the 1960s, pieces like Atmospheres and Lontano that releases a dense bands of constantly shifting blocks of highly-spiced sound. What Ligeti has applied to the vastness of the symphony orchestra, Scelsi has applied to small chamber groups-- expressing the same sense of friction from melodies being compressed into incomparably small