 Here are a few (as a Physicist, I'm somewhat biased)We can go faster than light. We can't go faster than the speed of light. One is a constant that Einstein gave us in Special Relativity and Maxwell with his equations.The Sun, our star, is actually white with peak output around the green wavelengths. Our atmosphere scatters light at lower wavelengths (eg: blue) which is why the sky is blue and the Sun appears yellow/orange.Don't believe atoms, they make up everything. (Technically, this is a thing Feynman said, somewhat paraphrased).The strong force is magical. Not only does it hold the protons and neutrons together at a larger scale, but it also holds quarks together to form particles like protons and neutrons (hadrons). It has been shown to have a component proportional to the distance between objects; for example: it gets stronger the further apart two quarks are.There are about 65 billion solar neutrinos passing through one square centimeter of you, every second. Fortunately for us, neutrinos just pass right through. Unfortunately for physicists, that makes it harder to detect them. Furthermore, solar neutrinos oscillate between different "flavors" on their way here from the sun, a fact that confounded physicists for years. To complete the neutrino trifecta, they are the classic exhibit of parity violation for the weak interaction, a blow to physicists' mid-1950s dreams of perfect mathematical symmetry. Page on home.arcor.deWhen you see a power generator short-circuit and a beam of electricity forms between the two ends -- you'll notice that beam slowly rises. The reason it doesn't stay in a straight line (shortest path between two points) is that it ionizes and heats up the air so well that the path of least resistance is in the column of rising hot air it generates.John Wheeler believes all electrons have the same mass (and charge) because they are all the same electron (see One-electron universe).Sound can produce light. We don't actually know "why" for sure, but plenty of arguments exist: Sonoluminescence.Light is affected by gravity.