 Living with Google Inbox, life is good.I'm probably one of the heaviest users of gmail I know. I adopted it rather early, and I have tended to be in beta access for many of the features. Let's just start with stats I took a few days agoSo yeah. I guess I know a thing or two about dealing with email. First, I now currently use Google Inbox and have almost fully migrated[1] from Gmail. See my post on Forbes which is of Reviews of: Inbox by Gmail.Note, I also use Google Chat a shitton. But remember that I'm deaf so I naturally like to just communicate by text rather than spending effort lipreading or understanding accents. It's easier to understand broken english in text than broken english in speech.Email = NewsfeedEver since I used email, I treated it like text messages, like tasks, like to do lists, like a calendar, like reminders, pretty much controlling everything I do. I'm a pretty busy guy. I like to think I'm smart. It's very hard for me to remember anything and everything I do and/or need to do. To this extent, I used Outlook from the beginning, then switched to Thunderbird because of concise tagging, quick searching, and email grouping into bundles of items. And now, Google Inbox is the answer to my dreams, and more!See, emails flood in on an hourly basis for me. I talk with people all over the world in pretty much every timezone. There is no downtime for my email. Unlike Facebook, I know which emails I've read and responded to, and which ones I haven't gotten to. And I'm guaranteed not to miss anything. I dislike emails that stay at the top, such as in gmail with the "Important", "Unread", or splitting it up into separate categories. For me, this is terrible. I need everything in one location. I need visual cues. I need groupings. But it needs to be chronological. If it's not chronological, then I have a hard time remembering where things are.How the hell do you have so many?Well, I love syncing all my accounts together. To date, I have email forwarding via various universities:Caltech (2 email accounts)UChicago (3 email accounts)Harvard (1 email account)MIT (2 email accounts)UF (1 email account)and various organizationsAdaptly (1 email)LIGO (2 emails)CERN (6 emails)Red Cross (1 email)Facebook (2 emails)Github (1 email)My website (1 email)and on top of this, I also take advantage of tagging email subscriptions using my email and tagging spam as well. How do I do this? Well, let's say my email was1
giordon.stark@domain.tldAnd I sign up on a website using my email address, let's say, Quora. I tag my email with the website1
giordon.stark+quora@domain.tldThis means I can filter specifically by the recipient email address, rather than the sender. For example, Quora sends emails from various accounts, and I rather not set up a damn filter for every single one.This also lets me figure out who is selling my account information because if YahooAnswers emails me using that email address, then I know Quora sold them my account information and I'll bitch at them about it.If I wanted to tag spam, I could do "+spam" but that seems obvious. No, I'm not obvious. I'm sneaky like a white ninja. Like Aunt Flo, I use the period!1
g.iordon.star.k@domain.tldThis way, I know for sure emails tagged with this, I NEVER care about. No matter what. This saves me a lot of hassle of creating an anonymous email because I can just filter my recipient email.What about zero inbox?Honestly, I get about 100+ emails a day. It's pretty hard for me to really go through them all, but I can easily use Google Inbox's "done" feature to quickly archive anything that I don't need to care about or just are notifications informing me of something. If there is something that comes in that deserves my attention or I cannot archive for a while, I will pin it. This means it goes to a special place in Inbox where I can view all pinned emails and deal with them later. Finally, I have the snooze feature which allows me to deal with emails later, if I can't deal with them right this second, but they're not worth of being pinned.To summarize - when I go through emails, I either archive because I'm done, quickly reply then archive because I'm done, snooze it for later, or pin it because it's important and I need to refer to it many times over and over. A new feature of pinning the item is that I can also tag it with a reminder of what I need to do with the email such as "book flights to DCA" for my Washington DC Policy Trip. Google Inbox will automatically convert what I just typed into a direct link to Google Flights with the dates filled in from the email round-trip between where I am and where I want to go. It does this for items such as "email Joe Smith" or "booty-call Natalie Dormer" or "add this to calendar" or "create new event" and so on. The reminder abilities are endless. And I can add new reminders to my Inbox without having to pin anything as well, replacing my habit of emailing