 Living with Google Inbox, life is good.I'm probably one of the heaviest users of gmail I know. I adopted it rather early, and I have tended to be in beta access for many of the features. Let's just start with stats I took a few days agoSo yeah. I guess I know a thing or two about dealing with email. First, I now currently use Google Inbox and have almost fully migrated[1] from Gmail. See my post on Forbes which is of Reviews of: Inbox by Gmail.Note, I also use Google Chat a shitton. But remember that I'm deaf so I naturally like to just communicate by text rather than spending effort lipreading or understanding accents. It's easier to understand broken english in text than broken english in speech.Email = NewsfeedEver since I used email, I treated it like text messages, like tasks, like to do lists, like a calendar, like reminders, pretty much controlling everything I do. I'm a pretty busy guy. I like to think I'm smart. It's very hard for me to remember anything and everything I do and/or need to do. To this extent, I used Outlook from the beginning, then switched to Thunderbird because of concise tagging, quick searching, and email grouping into bundles of items. And now, Google Inbox is the answer to my dreams, and more!See, emails flood in on an hourly basis for me. I talk with people all over the world in pretty much every timezone. There is no downtime for my email. Unlike Facebook, I know which emails I've read and responded to, and which ones I haven't gotten to. And I'm guaranteed not to miss anything. I dislike emails that stay at the top, such as in gmail with the "Important", "Unread", or splitting it up into separate categories. For me, this is terrible. I need everything in one location. I need visual cues. I need groupings. But it needs to be chronological. If it's not chronological, then I have a hard time remembering where things are.How the hell do you have so many?Well, I love syncing all my accounts together. To date, I have email forwarding via various universities:Caltech (2 email accounts)UChicago (3 email accounts)Harvard (1 email account)MIT (2 email accounts)UF (1 email account)and various organizationsAdaptly (1 email)LIGO (2 emails)CERN (6 emails)Red Cross (1 email)Facebook (2 emails)Github (1 email)My website (1 email)and on top of this, I also take advantage of tagging email subscriptions using my email and tagging spam as well. How do I do this? Well, let's say my email was1
giordon.stark@domain.tldAnd I sign up on a website using my email address, let's say, Quora. I tag my email with the website1
giordon.stark+quora@domain.tldThis means I can filter specifically by the recipient email address, rather than the sender. For example, Quora sends emails from various accounts, and I rather not set up a damn filter for every single one.This also lets me figure out who is selling my account information because if YahooAnswers emails me using that email address, then I know Quora sold them my account information and I'll bitch at them about it.If I wanted to tag spam, I could do "+spam" but that seems obvious. No, I'm not obvious. I'm sneaky like a white ninja. Like Aunt Flo, I use the period!1
g.iordon.star.k@domain.tldThis way, I know for sure emails tagged with this, I NEVER care about. No matter what. This saves me a lot of hassle of creating an anonymous email because I can just filter my recipient email.What about zero inbox?Honestly, I get about 100+ emails a day. It's pretty hard for me to really go through them all, but I can easily use Google Inbox's "done" feature to quickly archive anything that I don't need to care about or just are notifications informing me of something. If there is something that comes in that deserves my attention or I cannot archive for a while, I will pin it. This means it goes to a special place in Inbox where I can view all pinned emails and deal with them later. Finally, I have the snooze feature which allows me to deal with emails later, if I can't deal with them right this second, but they're not worth of being pinned.To summarize - when I go through emails, I either archive because I'm done, quickly reply then archive because I'm done, snooze it for later, or pin it because it's important and I need to refer to it many times over and over. A new feature of pinning the item is that I can also tag it with a reminder of what I need to do with the email such as "book flights to DCA" for my Washington DC Policy Trip. Google Inbox will automatically convert what I just typed into a direct link to Google Flights with the dates filled in from the email round-trip between where I am and where I want to go. It does this for items such as "email Joe Smith" or "booty-call Natalie Dormer" or "add this to calendar" or "create new event" and so on. The reminder abilities are endless. And I can add new reminders to my Inbox without having to pin anything as well, replacing my habit of emailing myself when I'm on the go to remind myself to do things... Now I set Reminders.And finally this is where bundling has saved my life. Inbox allows me to bundle everything related into a single group, so whenever a new message comes in that goes into the group, all email messages in that group jump to the top of my inbox because it's chronological! This allows me to quickly see new actionable items without having to scroll, or dig through things that are arbitrarily classified as Important. Instead, Bundling allows me to have nearly infinite levels of Importance!How do you manage giant email threads?The best way is to always comment to things inline, so that the conversation is broken up by paragraph or actionable items. I provide an example below.replies inlineOn Thursday, February 19, 2015, Giordon Stark wrote:Hi Marco, now I definitely have some questions that need to be clarified, maybe I missed the memo.On Thu Feb 19 2015 at 12:14:34 AM Marco Milesi wrote:Hi peeps,I have merged my devbranch to the trunk. Here are the major changes:1) fixed ConstDataVector, const xAODContainer issues in all Muon* and Electron* modules2) changed all passSel flags from int to char in all Muon* and Electron* modulesAwesome, thanks.3) in JetCalibrator, added possibility to extract flag "simulationFlavour" to use correct calibration for MC (NB: need to define flag for each sample in your job steering macro)Can you elaborate on this? Shouldn't this already exist in the MetaData tree? You do something similar to extra other information in BasicEventSelection (which might need to be renamed).This apparently is the only way to do the job outside of Athena, unfortunately. I already asked to PAThelp and they confirm... 4) Now mcEventWeight is extracted in BaseEventSelector first, and is retrieved by all the EL algorithms downstreamCan you explain why you're grabbing the event weight this way instead of using the recommended  eventWeight = eventInfo->auxdecor< float >( "eventWeight" );Did I miss something? What is the extra complexity in here for?In the xAODAnaHelpers Twiki it is said it is preferable in terms of performance to use SG:: Decorator and Accessor. Originally I had the same thing as you said. Who wrote the section on the TWiki about that?5) general restyling of OverlapRemover. Implemented a template function in HelperFunctions to fill the output ConstDV (can be reused w/ slight changes by any EL algo)Does the template just basically deal with making subsets for a given flag? What's the point of "tool_name" here? If you don't mind, I might try cleaning up the template a bit (eg: I'm not sure we need all the declarations below, since the compiler should fill it in for us based on what the code uses and we could potentially combine it into one type)In the OR tool, the logic of the Overlaps flag is reverted. Basically an object flagged as "overlaps" should not be pushed back to the output ConstDataVector, whereas an object flagged as "passSel" should. Since the aim of the template function is to be usable by any selector, I opted for having an exceptionfor the OR case, at least until Steven does not revert the logic of the "Overlaps" flag.6) added enum in HelperClasses to classify "containerType". This replaces "ints" for m_type. See OverlapRemover for a working example.Everything compiles in Base,2.0.25.However, I get a crash at runtime b/c some passSel flags are still ints and not chars. Could anyone who worked on selectors double check he/she updated to the new type convention?I can check this.That would be awesome, thanks!As you can see, the original email is the one most nested in and my responses are bolded, and you can see Marco's responses to my responses, and you can read the full conversation from each block. This is a fantastic feature that Google has always supported. It's a wonderful habit and it allows me to really focus on key items of the email without having to scroll up and down to read old replies and so forth. In this example, this is an email chain of a ROOT Software Framework I work on within ATLAS that we're building up to prepare for Run-2 Analysis and Supersymmetry studies.Google automatically actions items for meMost people don't know about this feature... but I can't live without it.There is a provided API for anyone sending email to add meta-data that specifies a link to quickly take action on an email. I mentioned this before and I'll mention it again. Emails are like newsfeeds and a lifestyle. They represent conversations in my life that I'm involved in and they should always move towards making it easier for me to connect with life. Not force me to use it. Emails are reminders. They tell me what needs to be done, and I do it. And then archive when I'm done. It keeps me going. I keep it going. It's a symbiotic relationship. Here's another example with Steamor flightsor showing documents within a bundleand within an email