 I ate at Sukiyabashi Jiro Roppongi about a month ago. A lot of the other answers have narrated the experience of dining there already, so I'll try to answer some of the questions around what makes it stand out from other sushi experiences.Was it the best sushi I ever had ?Yes, but there is some fine print, so read on.Was it worth the 5X-6X cost multiplier of what you can get at Tsujki Market ?It's questionable. If you are optimizing absolute best quality rather than value for money yes, otherwise go stand in line at the fish market. It was 25% better than the other famed fish market places for a very significant price premium. If you want the absolute best and want to indulge in it, go for it.There are courses elsewhere which can be better than Jiro. The Uni for example was great, but I've had better Uni elsewhere. There are some sushi preparations which are just different. Quality of fish can be a wildcard, so it's not the be all, end all of experiencing good sushi.What made it better ?The quality of the fish for many courses was phenomenal, the tuna and shrimp for example.In some of the other courses, it was the preparation that just made them melt in your mouth. The horse mackerel and eel feel into this category.Was the egg as good as it was hyped up to be?Absolutely. It was unlike any other Tamago I've eaten at a sushi restaurant. Unlike most other sushi restaurants, it's more of a cake than a gross looking chunk out of an omelette. This was one of the courses that definitely made Jiro stand out from the Tsujiki sushi restaurants.Would I do it again ?Given that I don't live there, I'd happily include it in a visit to Tokyo given how infrequent I'd expect those to be, If I were a local, I'd probably visit it at most once a year for a special occasion. It's also a lot of food, so it's not a practical everyday meal.In short, it was great, but it wasn't value for money considering how good some of the other sushi options in Japan are.Was it as good as the primary Sukiyabashi Jiro location ?I don't know but given how easy it is to get reservations for it, it being about 1/3rd cheaper and it has 2 vs. 3 stars, I'd imagine it's slightly though not by much. Of course, I can't say for sure.Given that it was already in the deeper end of the cost - quality spectrumin terms of pushing the limits of how much one would pay for sushi, at least from my perspective it fell in the same mental category of super high end sushi.It's not the best option if you care about value for money, though a great place to indulge in rarely.