 Freeway traffic:Auto pilot works amazingly well. It's shocking and delightful. You'll certainly get to experience a "holy shit !" moment.I wasn't sure how well it would work it night, though I tried it and it worked like a charm. You can see how it's tracking the lanes on the display - blue lines indicate it's tracking the lanes.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...This is the advertised use case, and they nailed it right. It's not a gimmick. It's the real deal.I've heard of other drivers also saying they can just hop onto a freeway and it just works.It's also a bit awkward in ways - for instance if you look at this video, you'll see how the driver is just sitting and chilling while the car drives, and he's finally trying out the web browser.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Reddit's Tesla forum has a number of other videos showing it in action:Official Autopilot v7.0 Video Thread  /r/teslamotorsThere has been talk about self driving cars and how we'd all be texting, taking pictures and watching YouTube videos while our cars drive themselves - I wrote a longer and older post about this here. It's one thing to speculate and think about it, though experiencing autopilot was one of those moments where I felt that future is completely certain.Stop and go traffic:Traffic assisted cruise control ( i.e. accelerating and braking the car with traffic moving and stopping constantly ) works extremely well and always has since it went live. With autopilot it became better because it now automatically resumes.Self steering works well if they turns aren't sharp, since it follows lane markings to guide itself, it's not great at adjusting speed for sharp turns.So stick to the car only controlling speed and steer manually if the roads are sharp and curvy.Indicator driven lane changes:I've only tried to use the indicators for lane switching on a freeway, and they work well. You are still supposed to scan your blind spot.Automated parallel parking / automated garage parking:I have not been able to get this feature to work. I've seen videos of it working, but I've never seen the parking indicator trigger.I'm probably doing something wrong.Also, the review mentioning that this worked in June is highly suspect - parallel parking only came out in version 7.0 and garage parking is still not out ( it's a 7.1 feature ).TLDR: Tesla Autopilot works extremely well on freeways, which is what it was designed to do. Beyond that, just remember it's mainly reliant on being able to see lanes, the car ahead of you and to some extent GPS and sideways sensors.It's not advertised as or meant to be a full self driving car, though it's a wonderful taste of that future today. I am terribly afraid though that some people will use it thinking it's magic and not read about and understand it's limitations.What are the cases it doesn't handle well ?Well, there are a few corner cases I've experienced where it's better to go manual though they are relatively predictable and well defined.If someone trying a sudden change into your lane, it's not as fast to react as a human. So be watchful for this. Thankfully with the car accelerating, braking and steering for you, this gives you a lot of cycles to pay attention to jerks who are try to squeeze into your lane.The auto pilot seems to have disabled vanilla traffic assisted cruise control and in particular taken away the ability to enable it at low speeds ( which was great for stop and go traffic ). You could tap on the cruise control stick, and it would just maintain it's speed. I hope this is something they bring back. Now you enable TACC by enabling auto pilot then overpowering the steering which is awkward.Sometimes autopilot keeps track of your previous speed when you disabled autopilot, vs. trying to turn it on with the current speed. So if you had it on in a 55mph freeway, and disabled it, and then moved to a 65mph zone, it enables auto pilot at what your previous speed was set to be.If you are on a street with weak markings, and there are no other cars, it can end up playing pacman. In general, be careful when markings are weak. ( I had this happen to me on a deserted offramp ). I wish there was also some learning or early warning that was based on Tesla using it's mapping data based on routes you drive often around where lines are weak.This is a nitpick, though I get the impression it tends to keep constant distance from the lane line to your left rather than aligning itself in the middle of two lanes.Thanks Tesla for making such an awesome feature.