 I have not been 19 in a while, but I do recall wanting to save the world, somewhat. I recall thinking that I was an automatic negative due to my carbon footprint and that unless I could prove my positive net worth, by accomplishing something meaningful for the world, that I should kill myself. Yes, there is nothing like the passion of not having a passion. Youthful angst is normal. I remember saying to someone that i believed my mother loved me for all the wrong reasons. Today, the idea of love having a reason is ludicrous. There were another dozen things wrong with my thinking back then. And of all my peers. And even half of my peers, today. They want to be right, they want to be soevial, they want to judge, and none of those things matter. The only thing that matters is discovering who you are. It is the only thing that removes the angst and the suffering inherent in every life that has not discovered it. It is the only way to find your special function. Oddly, it must sound circular to those that don't get it, because it sounds like I am saying that you find your purpose by living your purpose. What I am saying is that school type learning has an end to usefulness. The important stuff cannot be learned from a book, a guru, a list of aphorisms. It is a process that begins, in fact, with unlearning. As I said most people go through life not having seriously asked the question you pose, and most certainly avoided seriously looking for answers. The reason is that we are complex beings who are capable of much self deception. The most important part of us is hidden by a lie, it is the ego that we grew to trust as our savior from feeling wrong or threatened. It is far too clever to be argued out of existence. It merely weakens when you have ceased to need it and when we are focused on truth. It is selling fear and false beliefs. Logic alone will not make it go away. You learn that you are not your ego, by not listening to it. This is not easy, but it can be done. You need to meditate and become the observer. Or perhaps more accurately, the observer of the observer. The other thing you need to do is live your highest values. In so doing, you become less judgmental, more forgiving, able to see the good in others. You start to see the solution in every problem, the value of adversity, and your place in the answer. It works! In less than three years, you will have undone the damage of a decade. I urge you to not do what I did, look for book answers to a non book problem for three decades. The process of growing through living, takes effort, and a few years, but it is the only solution I know to the issues you are having. And, it brings true happiness, peace, joy, and love.