 I understand that if you choose to adopt America as your new country, you might want to marry an American, (presumably you mention Caucasian because nearly 90% of American women are Caucasian, but you should not rule out African American or Latina, or another Indian emigree living here, or a native born American who is of Indian or Pakistani descent). OK, think for a minute what it is like in India, for immigrant Chinese, Blacks, even Pakistanis, regardless of economic caste or religion. There is not always a welcome attitude toward immigrants. Even amongst more liberal and educated families that are accepting, there is not universal acceptance by the family of an Indian who dates or marries outsiders. America is a diverse country, founded by immigrants oddly enough, but it is not necessarily open to other races. It varies by region. In larger cities, the only exposure may be to taxi drivers, in smaller towns, there may be no experience at all. No experience can mean open minded, but it generally means distrust, fear of the unkown, a distaste for someone different joining the family. You will notice a more cosmopolitan acceptance in a college town, or in Canada such as in Toronto, Montreal or Vancouver. Be prepared for considerable rejection amongst casual encounters from work. And, do not assume that because a girl goes out with you that she can sell the idea of marriage to her parents. So, if you expect to date an American, of any race, be prepared for a degree of nonacceptance, a certain amount of lipservice but a touch of dishonesty, and like your country, it is nothing personal, it is a level of initial discomfort, it is not a rflection upon you, but uoon them, so do not take it personally. Expect a long learning curve regarding social norms, picking up on social cues. A great teacher/mentor for you would be someone that is sensitive but not threatened by the possibility of getting too close. A gay woman, or better yet, a gay man, may be your best nonjudgmental friend, an astute study of social phenomena and psychology that can help you navigate this new landscape of subtle messages and duplicity versus honest communication. Also, he/she can offer good advice on office politics, fashion, degree of familiarity permitted or not permitted at different stages in an initial relationship. Another area where you will need a lot of help is language. Even those from India that attended grade school in England sometimes have difficulty in being understood. So Americanizing the speed of your speech, will take a careful ear, effort, and