 time. You have an additional burden because English was apparently not commonly spoken in your household and/or you did not have the advantage of working in a large city amongst students or employees all speaking fluent English in your school or job. Americans can excuse an occasional verb tense error, etc., but not in every sentence. If I recall, there were four or five errors in your one written question. This can be unsettling to some, especially a girl who is evaluating a mate's earning potential. Remember, we were a land of uniformity until the last one to two generations and it is unnerving to some.Given various barriers and limitations, playing the odds would seem to favor using a social media, perhaps a dating site, in order to meet someone sooner than later. But, regardless of any American girl's receptiveness and you overcoming any current personal limitations, life is a journey to be enjoyed, and people are people. Try not to judge the close-minded, do not take things personally, and simply enjoy meeting new people, some of whom will befriend you. Do not try too hard. Be yourself. Smile a lot. People want to be around happy people. Treat everyone with respect. Good manners is fashionable in every society. A mature person who does not get angry or depressed, who is generous and laughs a lot, is the type of person who anyone on any continent would want to be around. Americans are a fortunate lot for the last 100 years, so we expect everyone to be happy, and are suspect of those who are moody, secretive, or overly sensitive. I hope if you adopt our land as your home, you will learn our history, understand that American exceptionalism is/was real, despite the many mistakes we made globally in the past 50 years. We worship freedom, knowledge, success, and God, in that order. Actually not terribly different from India from what I have heard. We have many outspoken people, and many of them are idiots; you are not obliged to love them, just learn to tolerate and forgive our bigots and those who are living from a fearful mind. You will impress people if you have read and learn about our geography and our great leaders, inventors, industrialists, educators, poets, moviemakers, and songwriters. In two or three years, you will either be in love with this country, her people, and a wonderful girl, or you will want to go home. The experience is totally unwritten and your joy will come with some challenges. I hope I have not made you feel it is impossible or too difficult. There is much hope, here. I wish you the very best of success!