 I don't think people really inspire you. What often suffices for the appearance of inspiration is someone likes how they feel around a particular person and they conflate the person's behavior and how they feel, correlation versus causation, and they emulate that person. In the process of emulating their behavior, they change their own opinion of themselves, and are satisfied that they are happier and equate it with having been inspired. But, wasn't it the fact that they changed their opinion of them self that was the key, and can't that be done even without a role model or a mentor, if you choose to live your higher values? I will say, absolutely yes. So, the inspiration comes from within all along. "How do do that?", you ask. It is similar to spiritual awakening. People want to know how and the gurus say, "when you stop trying." It happens almost be accident, but as Ram Dass says, "Meditation makes you accident prone." This inner guidance, or personal inspiration, can be said to be many things, a connection to the inner divine, a connection to cosmic conciousness, you higher self, or simply the unconcious mind. It is not necessary that we agree what it is or how it works, but meditation does aid the process, because it tends to quiet the ego mind in favor of letting your real mind make its appearance. If you simply have mental blocks against meditation, because you think you have tried it and it made you uncomfortabe, try it again, it is supposed to make you uncomfortable at first. If you really refuse to try it just because, no rational reason, just because, I am not sure your question is serious. But, if you claim you want this change without doing that, I recommend doing public service for others, and forgiving your enemies; both will reach the same end result, your ego loses its hold as the primary force in your life, and you will feel inspired to live your life for the betterment of society and for the love of others for the simple selfish reason that such behavior now gives you joy!