 There is a lot of excellent advice, and I hope you are able to use it. It is rare to develop great speaking skills when you are under 30, but it isn't essential to most of us in our jobs, below that age. It is only important to improve to good speaking skills to be promotable and to be comfortable at parties, on the golf course, double dates. There is no great secret solution. Part of it is in the experience of growing up, part of it is skill by practice, and part is due simply to doing, gaining confidence by making improvements. Skill by practice. You can make great strides by doing all of the following:Read, and read, and read! No single greater thing will improve your vocabulary, your grammar, your knowledge base or comfort.Write, write, and write some more. We tend to speak as we write and therefore we should get in the habit of writing, and learning to write better. Use the writing lab at your college. Graduate students enjoy tearing apart what you have written and help you spot your particular faults and knowing your own style. Join the debate club. Picking a topic and arguing about, regardless of the side that you favor, develops skill and confidence in how you express a point of view, mold your listener toward your bias, and tricks in dealing with adversity.Join Toastmasters International, they meet once per week and you will not only learn to give an elevator speech, you will meet great people, sometimes new CEOs, who are also late in mastering the art of speaking in groups. Find trusted friends with whom you can get drunk with the purpose of arguing. You will both be illogical, but you won't know it and the confidence you gain can help defeat some of the ingrown fears of speaking your mind.Either for class, or work, or for a party, or a church sermon, or a testimonial for a friends funeral or wedding, write something, rewrite it, condense it to an outline, use index cards, practice it, then throw away your notes, then make your presentation. The time in preparation will cause you to memorize sufficiently so that you will be able to say it with confiction, passion, feeling, and comfort. Become your best self. Living your values, growing up, losing your many fears, reduces the egoic thoughts and the many negative influences of such thinking, and helps you focus on being the real you. It has the added advantage of making you more happy, but it starts a spiraling cycle of removing every fear, including the root causes and beliefs that result in your perfectionist tendencies that inhibit confident speaking.I had cause to listen to a half dozen community leaders in the past few days and two of them blew me away. Because they lived their subject matter for the last 18 months, serving on committees that developed landmark positions and produced 50 page papers, and they themselves had written much of the intermediate position papers, they were as fluent on their subject as I am about my life story. Their politically sensitive positions were so well developed that they convinced anyone within hearing distance to take their side and to want to get involved in their project. It made me wish I took the above advice many years earlier. Good luck.