 Wow, some truly conflicting emotions. I am guessing you are from India, as I don't know anyone in America that perceives school as a competition. No offense, but, maybe you folks should reevaluate the vaue of education for education sake. All that aside, do you agree that your charitable helping of others was not truly charitsble, but giving to get? When there are strings attached, a perceived benefit of seeing yourself as special or others owing you thanks, praise, avpayback, that is a bribe for them to support your (fearfully insecure) ego. The mere fact that you could feel guilty about it after the fact is proof that you are not aligning your behavior (or concious thoughts) with your true values. You cannot buy a stairway to heaven. If you could, it wouldn't be heaven and you wouldn't really want it. So, what are going to do about it? Can you agree that it is better to give because you love, and that sharing is a happy duty? Then, you start with giving more of yourself. And, whenever you are aware of thinking you are better than someone else, immediately admit that you failed on that day, and try again. You will fall a thousand times, but you need only get up one thousand and one. Eventually you will reach a happy state of benevolence that is unprideful and you will know your true self. There are a variety of techniques that help, including meditation, mindfulness, forgiveness of others, service to your community or to individuals. My belief is that they all have value, and each of us has a different path based on our unique issues that we need to overcome. But, it is not a theoretical issue requiring intellectual analysis because we are talking about the human organism. The issue and its solution is improved mental health; it is an experiential solution that impacts feelings and beliefs and behavior and thoughts. This is not the subject of science nor philosophy. You learn by doing, therefore the best path is service to others, and for most of us, forgiveness of others. It helps you grow to value others, yourself, and truth.