 The least effective federal policy? I am sure there are at least a dozen close ties. A democracy tends to have too many people from too many sides taking pot shots at meaningful legislation that the final version gets watered down. For example, the original Affordable Care Act was good, with sufficient incentives and true full coverage, but in an effort to "sell it" to the other side, one hundred pages of important industry-specific competition promotion was pulled out, amongst other things. Other areas are immigration policy and its execution, and campaign finance laws, both of which have features that are counter productive.Bernie Sanders' platform is a nice start for all the things we do not do well or could do better. For me, it is a tie between two things, the federal government involvement in education, something that is clearly a States rights issue under the Constitution, and the War on Drugs. The first because, beyond college loan program and setting national education standards by assisting the States in developing and implementing standards, there should probably be no federal involvement. Making ghetto schools effective may require block grants to poor States if they have programs that prove effective, but no one seems to care enough to design effective solutions that incorporate the economics of the family unit: a need for free child care below age 16 so that someone in the family unit can afford to work, or a full employment policy at a livable wage. But, the single biggest failure in the last 50 years is making criminals of 5 million young poor, predominantly black, males, removing them from their families at a tremendous social cost and economic cost to their children and urban economy, and the wasted expense of spending an average of $60,000 per year on their incarceration, with almost no true attempt to educate nor train for jobs, nor to make it possible for them to achieve employment in the few cases where job training was done. The true extended cost is probably much more than $150,000 per year if you include justice system, legal system, prison construction, SNAP and Aid to Dependent Children for their fatherless families, and Head of Household and Earned Income Tax Credits required to support their families whose mother can not afford full time jobs given the cost of child care and notch effect from loss of benefits. Most social program and public policy experts agree that a transfer into properly directed programs equivalent to the prison population times $20,000 per year, would have saved at least $80,000 per year, or $150 Billion per year (Trillions of dollars over two decades), with far better social outcomes.