 Those are some odd and disjointed phrases with no detail to allow us to see what you are seeing, or to determine if your own diagnosis is correct, (often people are wrong abut the solution bease they are wrong abut the cause of the problem). Regardless, we can tell it doesn't feel good and that it is affecting your view of life, your relationships, and certain fears. The only true evidence I can go on is that you say you can't sleep. This is surely a sign of anxiety, which is a fancy way of saying, you are so depressed about the future, you lie awake in fear of something bad to happen. The good news is that this almost always treatable, and given universal health care in the UK, there is no reason you cannot get a prescription. But, treating symptoms is never the best solution, alone, because it means there is an underlying issue. It is a message to which you want to listen. For example, you can take pain medication for your inflamed ankles, but you don't want to ignore the fact that it was telling you that 300 pounds is too much and is going to blow out your knees, next. The message is one that only you, and perhaps your therapist can hear. Remember, I said people generally are incorrect about self-diagnosis of mental disorders. You are no exveption.There is almost always a reason, in the mind, for anxiety. You might make a dent in determining the cause, but you still may have to work at the root cause behind the cause. For instance, you might be watching too much Sky News about Islamic terrorists, sharia law, and the destruction of British civilization as we know it, or at least Birmingham. The cure for this is twofold, stop watching a totally one-sided bit of untruth, determine what in your past made irrational fear of others attractive to you. It is probably an issue of the ego projecting unworthiness outside the self so that it can judge others in righteous indignation for a fear that you aren't good enough, due to being berated by a domineering parent. This is easy stuff for a therapist to resolve once the cause is identified.OK, maybe Islamapocalypse isn't your trigger. It could be a spiritual crises about death, it could be that you always had a vision of what your good health would be at age 50 and at 45, you are going the other direction. Perhaps it is the realization that your retrement starts in eight years and you don't think you have saved enough or you regret alienating a family member or a child has abandoned you. But, you get the point. There is always a seeming rational reason for anxiety, and an irrational fear beneath the surface. Good luck to you in getting assistance with healing your insecurities and regaining a trustful, optimistic, joyful life!