 I have several friends who are practicing therapists. One is constantly reminding me, whenever I ask him a question in which I have labeled the person with a psychological disorder, if that "type" of person exhibits x traits because of y or z, that we are are all on a spectrum for each disorder that exists. Most of us are at the far extremes (normal or labeled with the DSM V label), and that to some extent, we all share attributes of these disorders, but to such a small extent to be insignificant. Not all therapists are apparently taught this way, but I find his explanations very wise and experienced. It helps me to think through these types of questions from this perspective, not only when looking at others, but when considering my own mind, my own ego, my own needs for personal growth, and that we are all capable of shifting our current spot on any continuum.Therefore, if he is right, and the opposite of empathy is psychopathy or sociopathy, it might make sense to say that not everyone is normal (empathetic) or unable to exhibit empathy or relate to others beyond sympathy (psychopath or sociopath), then, some people will exist somewhere on a continuum of a specific symptomology, without being outside the norms for normal and healthy. That also implies you could fall closer to the "norms" for being classified as being labeled with a disorder, but we should be careful not to make too much of the label, and think more about the person that we are labeling. My friend has success in helping his patients because he does not always see them as being hopeless, as "being their label." In fact, one could say that a patient (and healer) are healed, only after the therapists has momentarily forgotten to judge the client. In the case of this particular trait, the steps one should take in becoming more empathetic, it is probably different for all, as we each suffer from a myriad of different fears that make us what we are, but whatever "heals" a person toward growth as a self actualized person, and becoming more focused on service to others, forgiveness, love, and nonjudgment, will reduce the focus and strength of unhealthy ego based thinking, and vice versa. So, in this case, there is some merit in "fake it till you make it," as we tend to grow through experience, and the lengthy psychoanalysis is not always necessary nor as efficient as letting the mind heal itself through living. Accepting higher values of who we are inevitably moves us toward who we are and strengthens those values. Meditation, being vigilant of our thoughts, having a willingness to grow, all help condition the mind toward being aware of motivation, toward being capable of choosing better the next time. Eventually, removing the barriers to loves presence, you find that you have become the joyful person you truly always were.