 Arjuna in the war by being on the flag of Arjuna's chariot, thus stabilising and protecting it. Hanumanjis flag signifies sense control and mind control that gives victory to the higher nature over the lower nature.Arjuna's Chariot bursts into flames:At the conclusion of the war (Shalya Parva), as soon as Lord Krishna and Lord Hanuman exit Arjunas chariot, the chariot, along with the horses, instantly catches flames.The Mahabharata, Book 9: Shalya Parva, chapter 62:Keshava, addressed the wielder of gandiva, saying, "Take down thy gandiva as also the two inexhaustible quivers. I shall dismount after thee, O best of the Bharatas! Get thee down, for this is for thy good, O sinless one!"Pandu's brave son Dhananjaya did as he was directed. The intelligent Krishna, abandoning the reins of the steeds, then dismounted from the car of Dhananjaya. After the high-souled Lord of all creatures had dismounted from that car, the celestial Ape that topped the mantle of Arjuna's vehicle, disappeared there and then. The top of the vehicle, which had before been burnt by Drona and Karna with their celestial weapons, quickly blazed forth to ashes, O king, without any visible fire having been in sight. Indeed, the car of Dhananjaya, with its quick pairs of steeds, yoke, and shaft, fell down, reduced to ashes.Beholding the vehicle thus reduced to ashes, O lord, the sons of Pandu became filled with wonder, and Arjuna, O king, having saluted Krishna and bowed unto him, said these words, with joined hands and in an affectionate voice, 'O Govinda, O divine one, for what reason hath this car been consumed by fire? What is this highly wonderful incident that has happened before our eyes! O thou of mighty arms, if thou thinkest that I can listen to it without harm, then tell me everything.'Vasudeva said, 'That car, O Arjuna, had before been consumed by diverse kinds of weapons. It was because I had sat upon it during battle that it did not fall into pieces, O scorcher of foes! Previously consumed by the energy of brahmastra, it has been reduced to ashes upon my abandoning it after attainment by thee of thy objects!'On Rahul Kawadkar's Suggestion"Each attack by Arjun was pushing back Karna's chariot by ten paces while each Karna's attack was pushing Arjun's chariot by two paces. Throughout this duel, Krishna kept praising Karna saying "Bahut Khoob, Karna." Arjun got peeved with Krishna because he thought he was doing better than Karna. Krishna said "Your chariot is being driven by me, Vishwaroopam and has Lord Hanuman on your flag protecting it. Pushing back your chariot even slightly is an impossible task with us two deities protecting it. In spite of that, Karna is pushing it back with every attack."Decided the outcome of duel in a way. Source(s): http://stuact.tamu.edu/stuorgs/i...http://www.sacred-texts.com/hin/...