 As a Top Writer, I will let you know that I am not special either. I am one of billions just like you. And being one of billions, means that we are part of one great moving evolving process in this thing called life. As a Top Writer, I can find ways to be special. I can attach my ego to my little badge given to me by people that I don't even know. I can say that I've written a few things that have touched other people. I can say that I've enjoyed writing here and have enjoyed even more getting good feedback and even being published. Writing is my thing. Other things, not so much. But what I cannot say is that this makes me someone that stands out as special, privileged, or better than others. Everyone likes to feel special, and there are all kinds of ways to do that. I can use my Top Writer badge to bolster my self esteem on days that I really need it. When I feel insecure, I can remember a compliment I've gotten and feel a bit better. I'm sure there is something you can use as well. But that way of relating to oneself always falls short. It's nice, but it's not enough. It's about being special simply because you are alive. Because you are a human being. In this way, I can say that yes, I am special- and as a human being, so are you. You are actually the most important person in the world. You have to be because if you do not believe that, you will not be in the driver's seat of your own life, which means you will always allow others and outside situations to define you "as less than." You must believe you are the most important person because if you don't, you will not be taking your life seriously- for all the right reasons. Let me explain.Being the most important person means many things. It means that you get to be the creator of your own life. It means that you get to be limitless, that you choose to see yourself that way- regardless of struggles. Above all else, it means that you get to put into motion a life that is meaningful, rich, loving, beautiful and generous. You get to generate something. Not only for yourself- but for others too. This is how you leave your signature on the world. Being a special person to yourself- first and foremost- is what will make you shine like a diamond in this world. Go be your own diamond, friend.