 The fact that you're this confused, insecure, and uncertain and that this guy has got you into such a tail-spin about who you even are, suggests that you probably have some important inner and personal work to do. Leave him out of it. As you say, he's got his issues and is probably far from being ready for a mutually loving relationship. But he came along for a reason- and you jumped on this bandwagon and even considered marriage with someone who became abusive to you and pointed you directly to your own insecurities. I hope that terrifies you more than whether you did the right thing by leaving him. I hope you are more concerned about your own well-being, sanity, and future, than his.Along with Sanjay's suggestion, I suggest you look into some very important work that is being done by Melanie Tonia Evans on abuse, narcissism, and co-dependency. Her program is unique, deep, and thoroughly effective. It is illuminating stuff. The reason you attracted this kind of person into your life is indicative of your own blind spots. In Melanie's work, she speaks about the need to learn how to "self-partner"- which has to do with becoming clear about your subconscious wounds from the past (yes, I know it sounds like psycho-babbble, but hang in there with me), uplevel them, heal them, and re-wire yourself. The goal is to be conscious of your triggers, and to move out of victimization to thriver mentality so that you can attract loving people into your life, rather than abusers. She has developed her own recovery program and many free videos, articles, and webinars you can check out on the web. Until you get to the root of why you are attracted to such complicated men, you will continue to find relationships confusing, perplexing, and full of pain. What I've learned is that these kind of relationships are not random events. We attract people that treat us like we treat ourselves. When we hold ourselves responsible for other peoples' problems, we are co-dependent. We have lost the plot. We have given up our sense of wholeness. So stop the doubting, and all the confusion. You did the right thing. Now the choice is yours to go deeper, or continue on that same track- into the arms of potentially another difficult and painful relationship. I wish you well!