 It was a book I was compelled to underline, thoughtfully, and yet I wept over its pages for 5 straight years. I read it every March. It was more than a book to me but a witnessing of both the depths of the worst human behavior imaginable delivered by the gentlest, most poetic voice I had ever read. The book that changed my life was Night by Elie Wiesel.As a young woman, I first learned of Elie Wiesel when he delivered a keynote speech at a family therapist conference I was going to. The speech was on "morality in psychotherapy." "Who is this?" I asked one of my friends. And she told me, "That is Elie Wiesel. Have you ever read Night?"I had not. So my friend suggested I pick up the book and read it from start to finish. "It won't take you long," she said, but she was wrong. I savored it and let it penetrate me for days with its horrors. The first sentence that I underlined grabbed me. I had been more or less attracted to such life positive books, stories to do with championing over the human spirit. Mild spirituality. Self-help. But this introduction went like this:How can we explain the hate that burns in so many homes?It was a topic I was familiar with. Hatred. Even though I was reading this from a candlelit room 5 decades past the life of this story, hatred still persisted and persists. And so, I was compelled from the moment I picked it up by the narrative, the honesty in that voice of an old man remembering what it was like to be 15 at Auschwitz. I was grabbed by the throat as a young Wiesel lost more than his entire family, but would be forever changed by being a survivor, compelled to remember- for the sake of everyone and for history -what it was like to see God die in the form of a young boy hanging on the Gallows, along with all the people who perished, needlessly, inhumanely, decidedly, and with such organized precision.This story spoke to the depths of my soul. I became aware that it was not just a good book that people should read- but a witnessing that I felt every human being should grapple with if we are to create a new humanity without war, without holocaust, without degradation. To me, this story epitomized all that goes wrong with superiority and a false sense of utopian values. It crystallized so much of who I became in my twenties- and it raised me up- fearfully, yet thoughtfully. As a poet myself, I lost touch with my own sense of poetry after reading "Night". I could not top it. I could not fathom anything more powerful. Reading it was like entering a poem that transformed me as I gasped at the actions of my own fellow human beings and as I witnessed God Himself die in the eyes of thousands. Night made me believe in evil and know that it can exist again inside me, or you, or anyone. It bore witness to the lowest form of human behavior. But it also changed me for the better. Because in that suffering that was witnessed, I let it transform me into a heartbroken human being. This, I felt was an important effect of reading Night. I came to believe that if I could not be heartbroken by this story, then, wouldn't history surely repeat itself? And so, as one of the famous quotes in the story reaches me and so so many people who read it, I was surprised and glad to see it encrypted on the walls of the Holocaust Museum in Washington, D.C. And as the melody of this quote lives deeply in myself and all who read it, may we never forget either.Never shall I forget that night, the first night in camp, which has turned my life into one long night, seven times cursed and seven times sealed. Never shall I forget that smoke. Never shall I forget the little face of the children, whose bodies I saw turned into wreaths of smoke beneath a silent blue sky. Never shall I forget those flames that consumed my Faith forever. Never shall I forget the nocturnal silence which deprived me, for all eternity, of the desire to live. Never shall I forget those moments which murdered my God and my soul and turned my dreams to dust. Never shall I forget these things, even if I am condemned to life as long as God Himself. Never.