 In a country where culture is oriented towards group harmony, group ethics, and a specific hierarchy is strongly adhered to, individuality and independence is very difficult to find and foster. In fact, I would argue that Japanese culture has trouble with asserting individuality and independence. As a teacher in Japan, I had a very difficult time eliciting individualistic responses in conversation. If one person gave me an answer in a conversation group, often the entire group would parrot that answer too. Independence involves disagreement- and you are hard pressed to find that expressed openly in Japanese culture.There is a strong dependence in Japan on its cultural norms, expectations, and adherence to rules and to the hierarchy. It is not just suggested, it is expected. Independence is not rewarded. If you look at women, for example, you will find many who will reach a certain age and if they are not already married, they will hit that glass ceiling fast if they manage to get a position beyond office worker and making tea for others. Their bosses may begin to ask them when they plan to get married. Their families will begin to hint around that it is time. Not only that, but they may even lose their jobs or be unable to move forward in their work as a way of coercing them towards marriage.If they are married, then they may not be able to access health insurance on their own. They may be forced to be dependent on their husband's health insurance or unable to work full time hours.No, independence is not encouraged in Japan.Take salary men.They are often at the beck and call of their company which has the right to tell them to move to another city- like it or not- even if it means living away from their families. They are socialized to live in company dormitories where their meals are made for them and everything is done for them so that they can concentrate on their work. These men work together, live together, eat together, party together and bathe together.Take college students.They are often given very little choice in what they will choose to major in and study. Their professors often decide which company is right for them and will advocate for them to get hired. Many people do the choosing for them, it is often not characteristic for them to decide their career path, or they may have very limited options.On another level, take the United States' presence in Japan.Turn on the radio in Yokohama and you will hear American military radio stations blaring memoirs of wars gone by. Hyped up American war hero stories are reenacted by obnoxious 1940's sounding American radio hosts- broadcasting American triumphs in particular battles. This was one of the most shocking and uncomfortable things I have ever heard overseas. Japanese have been trying to shake free and independent from the American military presence in Japan for decades. So, for the record, there is a profound lack of independence in Japanese culture and this creates tremendous pressure for people of all ages.