 I was walking around at my lunch hour in Boston feeling kind of depressed, feeling like I needed some uplift- someone who could set me straight, give me something to think about, raise my spirits. I took out my cell and began imagining that maybe, I could talk to anyone in the world at that moment. I asked myself the question, "if you could talk to anyone in the world right now, in the history of the world, who would it be?" The answer was Maya Angelou.I pressed the phone to my ear as I walked up and down the streets of Chinatown. Feeling kind of silly, I leaned in and began talking to Maya as if she were on the other end.I felt compelled to listen, somehow, to something- maybe something that would emerge out of the darkness and gradually I hear her voice.She kept saying, "The heart of a woman." "The heart of a woman."I pressed my ear tighter. And then she began to speak. "You think you are on the bottom of the pile," she said, "but you are not. You're actually on top, but you just don't know it."Gratitude welled up in me right away and my whole perspective flipped on a dime. She continued."I think you should contemplate what it means to be a rich woman. Really think about that," she said with that very familiar Maya sing songy voice at the end of her sentence.Damn, that's good, I thought to myself. And I thanked her over and over into my phone. At last she said, "I never spend time with negative people. The minute you do, they start to rub off on you." More gratitude that was real and so deeply felt.I "hung up" the phone and was in a totally different state than where I started. I went back to my office and wrote down the following words:What does it mean to be a rich woman?It has been an excellent contemplation ever since. And the whole experience showed me that our most treasured people are in us already, because they have touched us. We are never alone, in this way. Their voices lie deeply within. In this way, we need never be separated from distance or time. Just pick up the phone.