 She was compared to Billy Holiday and Dinah Washington and had she not died at 27, she could've been as big as they were in the history of jazz. In fact, said Tony Bennett, she had the ability of a 65-year-old jazz singer who knows all the lines inside and out. Her gifts far exceeded her years, which burned out way, way too early, leaving less than a decade of music behind. She was a prodigy and her voice came from another era. If you were to ever believe in reincarnation, now was the time.Amy, directed by Asif Kapadia, is a two hour documentary which takes its time unveiling the girl behind the eyes. Her personal story is one of a shy girl with a gift for singing and writing poetry. She is pained from her parents' rocky marriage, when at age 9, her personality changes tremendously like the gradual piercings and tattoos that cover much of her body. As the eyeshadow curves and the hair piles higher and higher, her celebritydom emerges like the most unusual lyrics in her songs. It all happens fast. And when she delivers the poetry, it is through a body and soul which sends each melismatic syllable into you, like a shot right into your bloodstream. Just for the clips of Amy's performances alone, this film is worth every penny.The least interesting part of the film is her obsession with Blake, who at first leaves her for his ex-girlfriend, and then later comes back to marry her. He introduces her to heroin and crack and all things poisonous and their co-dependent relationship feeds a kind of brokenness in her as their wounds meet. Many of her songs are about Blake, including one of her biggest hits "Back to Black." The lyrics shock like ECT. He left no time to regretKept his dick wetWith his same old safe betMe and my head highAnd my tears dryGet on without my guyYou went back to what you knewSo far removed from all that we went throughAnd I tread a troubled trackMy odds are stackedI'll go back to blackhttps://youtu.be/UbI--2ATHc4The film depicts perfectly Amy Winehouse as a mix of powerhouse creativity and prodigal talent along with that broken doll psychology that continues to emerge right alongside her most beautiful creations. It is a story about how an already fragile personality falls for the wrong person and, what he doesn't steal from her soul, the world, as it grows predatory toward Amy, closes in like sharks around her. She is another victim of paparazzi terrorism and invasion. For someone on the brink, as many other artists have been before her, fame truly does "make her go mad" as she hauntingly predicts it would as a young girl. And so, we watch the demise of Amy Winehouse in the perfect tragedy of perfection torn down like the petals of a flower. She is deflowered by the inability to get help for her bulemia and severe alcoholism as her own father continues to push her onto the stage- no matter how sick she is. The most promising and perhaps beautiful moment in the film is her reaction to winning a Grammy as it is announced by her idol, Tony Bennett. Her face, as she watches Tony read her name, is shockingly innocent. You feel this real moment with her as her eyes show the love she has for jazz, and the awe and disbelief that she is truly in that league. https://youtu.be/1CSX8DxYUJkLater, when she is invited to record "Body and Soul" with Tony Bennett, her insecurities come out as she stumbles through a wobbly duet with him. It is truly the pinnacle of her career, and sadly, the last recording she ever makes before alcoholism takes her life a few short months later. If there were ever a reason to see a tragedy such as Amy, it is for this recording with Tony on "Body and Soul." Just as the world became infatuated with her, we witness again, the shameful primitive invasion around such fame (shame on Jay Leno for turning on her). But graciously, we are given one last chance to spend some time in Amy's world- two hours to be exact- witnessing what could have been the most famous singer of our time, had she lived a little longer.