 Jeff LeeI find that affirmations have limited value. They don't have long term impact nor are they assured to work on the most intractable issues of worthiness, self-esteem, and confidence, as these are often the result of deep fears, lessons learned from infancy through pre-adolescence. These beliefs form the core of who we think we are. As such, a conscious level affirmation is seldom effective against a strongly held unconcious belief, especially a belief that we do not recognize we have. For example, you decide your problem with getting the relationship you want is your confidence. You write the definitive affirmation, Saturday Night Live's Stuart Smaller quote: "I am good enough, I'm smart enough, and doggone it, people like me." You say it into the mirror morning, noon, and night and stick the koan in your lunchbox and paste it over your alarm clock and the coffee pot. Why doesn't it work? Because the problem is, deep down, you really don't think you are truly worthy because your passive-aggressive father's criticisms of your attempts to ride a two wheeler, your attempts to make a mailbox for shop, and several other traumas, which convinced you that he was right. I am more inclined to believe that such problems have to be unlearned, frequently. But, how do you change your inner beliefs? In order to experience a new effect, the cause must be changed, and the cause is our thinking. First, consider how we normally change our thinking and behavior:1.What you think, you see.2.What you see, you experience.3.What you experience, you think.Back to step 1 It takes willingness and time. We must truly be willing to change the way we think. Many of us are willing for a different experience, but not willing to change the habit of our thoughts. If you look at the thought-perception-experience loop, the thought above, you can see that shifting your perception ( step 2) requines a willingness to think differently at step 1. Once we have willingness, the second answer is consistency. Our thoughts are habits. A habit typically is not changed through one decision. A habit is changed by making the decision over and over again. We will notice ourselves thinking habitual thoughts, mulling over the past or having fantasies about the future, for instance. When we catch our self, we shouldn't chastise our self or feel guilty for what we have discovered, we shold be happ that we noticed the unwanted tnought and realize that it is an opportunity to choose again.It's important to remember that we will have to choose again over and over. We may successfully let go of a thought and feel a bit of peace come over us, and then 30 seconds later notice that the thought is there again. That's ok. Just practice the choose again process once more.In the beginning, habitual thoughts will pop up constantly, and we will constantly have to be consistent about choosing again. But as we do this, the habitual thoughts will come into the mind less and less frequently. Eventually the thoughts will disappear completely, and we may not even notice until it is reflected in experience (step 3).