 Jeff LeeUnlike some countries with a central bank providing the "strength" of government financial system, we have only a network of banks. (The Federal Reserve is not under the Treasury, so think of them as compliance auditors that act as a clearinghouse for government bonds, essentially government regulators with teeth).We have one integrated financial system, a network of banking institutions that we are utterly dependent upon.  It doesn't matter if 600 small banks go under or if only three big banks go under, either way, you would lose 40% of all banking. Unlike losing 40% of all paper manufacturers, the rest would reach replacement production capacity within the year, you would lose the entire banking system because 40% of depositors would be bankrupt, there would be a run on the remaining banks, for which there is no money, and you could have 100% bank failures. We have a fractional reserve banking system which means the money supply in banks is only a small fraction of your cash deposits; 80% of "your" money from this morning's payroll deposit was already loaned out to developers and car buyers. So what you call a bailout of a private institution is not that, at all! It was a rescue of the only financial system we have. As far as the government money, it is irrelevant, the TARP money was essentially loans as paid in capital and returned with interest, and the US government can, in the short run make trillions of dollars happen with no negative ramifications. So, what is the big fuss? Populist know-nothings took the opportunity of twisting stories into conspiracies, theft, corruption, government incompetence and privelege because they are clueless. It was none of those things. The cause was a stupid and avoidable interlocking network of high risk resulting from the largest market bubble in history and risky practices that should never have been allowed, (credit default sawps, bundling, mis-rating, and insurers using a faulty statistical assumption). The people who benefitted were not guilty of criminal behavior, merely guilty of greed, excess, and blindness. Incidentally, the tragedy is that, that part of the system is still broken. No new regulations have 100% curbed the possibility of recurrence.