 Jeff LeeHappily Ever After by Doris W. Helmering, LCSW All I can say is that the empirical evidence is there for me. It saved my, then, ten year marriage, our best friends' marriage, and a 22 year rocky relationship of a lesbian couple we know, oh yeah, and the very odd non-marriage of 30 years of the person who recommended it to me, four out of four track record. In my case, it only took 30 days, and I somehow went from being perceived as passive aggressive to being one who walks on water. Ten years later people would say, "you are the luckiest person on earth; she worships the ground you walk on," and she never read the book.If you want to think through why it worked and what methods were employed, it is the types of things that are tried and true, the ones used by real licensed therapists to get couples to see more clearly what they value, the benefits of reconditioning our reactions, thinking of the other first, showing affection in the moment, active listening, transactional analysis, visioning, meditation, self hypnosis, recognition, optimism, forgiveness, and how to short-circuit fighting. The beauty of it is that unlike most couples self-help books or methods that require that both parties actively be committed and involved, this actually works best from only one side of the relationship, and not necessarily work done by the person that most would perceive as the problem person or the one thst needs to eliminate irritating behavior. The book did not demand that I see myself as a cause of anything wrong, simply one who could take minor steps to change the dynamics of the relationship by altering how I was perceived by her, how we were perceived by her, but changing my perceptions and my behavior. Of the dozen methods that were all beneficial, one comes to mind even 20 years later, you simply take an inventory over several days of all the things you love about the other, what you are truly thankful for and would miss if that person was not in your life, and make a list of the most likely situations over the next weeks of where and when you will be likely to have the opportunity to praise or thank your spouse, filling the calendar with once per day acknowledgment of your sincere appreciation, admiration, love for their ability to be strong, or compassionate, or helpful, or generous, or loving, whether it be money to a beggar, a loan to a relative, giving up a golf date to help a friend move, doing the dishes before guests arrive, smiling and forgiving a child, valuing nature, teaching you something new, putting his parents before himself, successfully avoiding conflict with a coworker, or the twinkle in his eyes, the honesty expressed recently or in the past. So, why does it work so easily? It fits human nature, we want to feel special. My guess is because the biggest problem most people have is a set of insecurities and worthiness issues for which we tend to view others as the opposition or loyal defenders. By recognizing someone for what they value, you become the consistent loyal defender, they use your kind words throughout the day to reaffirm their value and they immediately sense why they are happy and become your biggest defender as well. When we are not concentrating on showing love, we tend to take the ones closest to us for granted, alienating each other, and we lose that bond that started the relationship. The other person resents us or we resent them, and we pick at emotional scabs when we feel abused by the world, accidentally distancing ourselves from the person we love most.