 Jeff LeeShouldn't mathematics have paradoxes. Yes, and it most certainly does, here are 19 from Wikipedia. There are not only counterintuitives, there are formula which yield incorrect results. With all fairness to math, calculus was not intended to take the place of limits. By substituting an integral for an infinite series, you sometimes get an error, for instance, Gabriel's Horn delivers a finite volume, with infinite surface area. Here are some of the more famous paradoxes:Infinity and infinitesimalsEditBurali-Forti paradox If the ordinal numbers formed a set, it would be an ordinal number that is smaller than itself.Cantor's paradox The set of all sets would have its own power set as a subset, therefore its cardinality would be at least as great as that of its power set. ButCantor's theorem proves that power sets are strictly greater than the sets they are constructed from. Consequently, the set of all sets would contain a subset greater than itself.Galileo's paradox Though most numbers are not squares, there are no more numbers than squares. (See also Cantor's diagonal argument)Hilbert's paradox of the Grand Hotel If a hotel with infinitely many rooms is full, it can still take in more guests.Russell's paradox Does the set of all those sets that do not contain themselves contain itself?Skolem's paradox Countably infinite models of set theory contain uncountablyinfinite sets.Zeno's paradoxes "You will never reach point B from point A as you must always get half-way there, and half of the half, and half of that half, and so on." (This is also a physical paradox.)Supertasks may result in paradoxes such asBenardete's paradox Apparently, a man can be "forced to stay where he is by the mere unfulfilled intentions of the gods".RossLittlewood paradox After alternatively adding and removing balls to a vase infinitely often, how many balls remain?Thomson's lamp After flicking a lamp on and off infinitely often, is it on or off?Geometry and topologyBanachTarski paradox Cut a ball into a finite number of pieces, re-assemble the pieces to get two balls, both of equal size to the first. The von Neumann paradox is a two-dimensional analogue.Paradoxical set A set that can be partitioned into two sets, each of which is equivalent to the original.Coastline paradox the perimeter of a landmass is in general ill-defined.Coin rotation paradox a coin rotating along the edge of an identical coin will make a full revolution after traversing only half of the stationary coin's circumference.Gabriel's Horn or Torricelli's trumpet: A simple object with finite volume but infinite surface area. Also, the Mandelbrot set and various other fractals are covered by a finite area, but have an infinite perimeter (in fact, there are no two distinct points on the boundary of the Mandelbrot set that can be reached from one another by moving a finite distance along that boundary, which also implies that in a sense you go no further if you walk "the wrong way" around the set to reach a nearby point). This can be represented by a Klein bottle.Hausdorff paradox There exists a countable subset C of the sphere S such that S\C is equidecomposable with two copies of itself.Missing square puzzle Two similar-looking figures appear to have different areas while built from the same pieces.Nikodym set A set contained in and with the same Lebesgue measure as theunit square, yet for every one of its points there is a straight line intersecting the Nikodym set only in that point.Sphere eversion A sphere can, topologically, be turned inside out Source: Wikepedia