 Jeff LeeI am sorry you are going through this. Anxiety is not only debilitating, it can rob you of joy, sabotage your abilities, and lead to depression. It need not be! Like all things that matter, it is not complicated but it is not always easy to heal. In the short run, please know that you will overcome this for that self-confidence alone may be the biggest contributor to how long a journey back to happiness. Asking your doctor for anti-anxiety medication is also not a bad idea, it makes the trip smoother by reminding you what it is like to feel healthy, but let's not use that alone as a substitute for following all the good advice you are getting about solving the root problem.As so very well expressed by Les, it does, indeed, have to do with "who am I?," so, read his many posts on that subject, and you will be forever grateful for his practical wisdom. Your life will be transformed in many ways. As mentioned by another, here, reading "Untethered Soul," by Michael Singer, is a very good way to jump start the process of changing your paradigm about the self, witnessing and understanding the ego, and realizing that all is choice and that you have the power to simply make that choice at any time. Also mentioned is the importance of meditating. I hope you are not one who would say, "tried it for a week, it didn't work," and then ignore the next dozen times that people who truly know advise you that this is the soultion, while you continue to ignore it and continue to be miserable. It can't be done in short spurts or irregularly, at least not initially. It takes a period of discomfort. You go at least five minutes past that feeling of I don't like this anymore, building up to 45 minutes every day. After thirty days, you develop a sense of peace, an ability to focus on observing your thoughts, being the watcher, then you can probably cut back to two 10-20 minute sessions per day. There are many benefits and there is much reason why it works, but you can read up on that on your own, if interested.What things can you do to immediately arrest the anxiety? You can start by stop watching the news, especially entertainment stations masquerading as news. I don't know one person who watches Fox that is not in need of prozac or wellbutrin. Most news is negative and not necessarily true. People have been predicting imminent financial collapse for 50 years and we didn't even come that close in the perfect storm of 2008! No virus, no matter how virulent no matter how many hours of nonstop coverage is going to wipe out the planet, nor is thinking about it helpful in any way. Serial murderers, demented teenagers, terrorists and plane crashes have nothing to do with you. No political coverage in the last hundred years was better than 75% accurate and nothing in the last ten has been even 25% accurate. Turn it off, stop watching, do not condition your mind to hate and fear. Don't be like my former boss and say "I watch it for entertainment sake, I know what is real and what is not." That is pure bullshit! He ended up fired and in the hospital. How do you become optimistic? How do you rebuild your confidence? Stop judging others and start forgiving your enemies and loving everyone. Seriously! You have hormones, adrenaline, cortisol, norepenephrine, and a host of others that act in a cyclic predictable fashion, as a sort of self-protection system, that is affected by anger and fear and hidden stress (anxiety), and we feed this dangerous process whenever we get angry, resentful, or feel victimized/judged. You have an ego, therefore these thoughts are conditioned from birth, based on incorrect beliefs, rerecting a very bad habit, hI'd den from your conions mind. It is an addictive sensation to think thoughts of revenge or helplessness. They do not help you they only hurt you. The only successful way to heal that mind has been taught by every religious master, forgive your neighbor, love your enemies, act charitably, do unto others as you would have them do unto you. It is not a prescription for pleasing a capricious God, it is a prescription for sanity so that you can recognize truth and experience joy and the peace that defies understanding.Finally, let the job become a source of satisfaction rather than fear. Vow to become more organized, prioritize your list and then remember to pause. Not all urgent decisions need to be made, immediately. If you pause to allow your inner wisdom and experience to assist you, the better decision often appears. Go get a drink of water, go to the rest room, wait until after lunch, share the pros and cons with a trusted ally, and act from principle, knowing that you will be supported, that you will have no regrets, that you did the right thing. I wish you well. I know that your future is one of much greater peace and happiness.