 Jeff LeeI have seen some absolutely ridiculous assumptions buried within questions on Quora, but this may be one of the least sensible. To assume that atheists are less moral is ludicrous. Morality does not emanate from religion, but from philosophy and societal values. My experience is that atheists are far more introspective, hold higher values about themselves and their fellow man, and are far more consistent in practicing their beliefs about the importance of their values, than are most theists. I am not an atheist, but I have several friends who are and I would rate them a 9 or 10 on exhibiting Christian values, and I have several friends who are devout church going Christians, most of whom I would rate a 5 and only a couple of them an 8 or 9. Prisons are filled with Christians, Jews, Muslims, and agnostics, yet less than 1% are atheists despite being 7% of the population. The countries with the highest incarceration rates are considered religious. Those with the absolute least incidence of crimes are the most atheist, by far. Much of man's inhumanity to man is solely based on religion: aborting girl babies including after birth; religious based genocide in prior centuries and recent genocide in Africa, Eastern Europe and Middle East; tolerance of slavery; eye for an eye justice; denial of education and healthcare to women; female genital mutilation; wife beating; government antigay death squads in Iran and Jamaica; suppression of women's rights; government endorsed rape squads; capital punishment; terrorist murders of innocent wisdom and children by those trying to form a religious state; and countless religious based laws that restrict freedoms and deny dignity for various unjustifiable reasons. Additionally, the most warlike regions in the world were fought over and maintained for centuries, based on religious separatism. Religion has done nothing to improve morality anywhere in the world, in my opinion. You have zero reason to worry about a growth in atheism nor a drop in morality. If you want to worry about something, worry about why you are so misinformed, worry about how growth of theism in much of the world is brainwashing people to not know truth, and worry about how those theists are destroying freedoms and causing human misery.