 Jeff LeeSo, you think that you are spending too much time at software games, scifi books and movies? The first step is the most difficult, realizing that it is harmful, and you have already achieved this. Nothing can be achieved without first seeing a need for change such that you are willing to do what it takes to change it. As to the belief that it is because you think reality is limiting, I don't think you have necessarily isolated the true cause and that is somewhat irrelevant. Not all things need to be cured at the cause, although it is often helpful. The next step is similar to a 12 step program, recognizing that you are (temporarily) addicted and see yourself as healed and being different in the future. That means you have to stop defining yourself that way. No longer say, "that is who I am, a guy who spends too much time blah blah blah, who believes reality is limiting," because you cannot envision two things simultaneously, so while you are believing this, you are not believing the truth that you want to be. Change your habits a little bit at a time and reward yourself for the change. Truthfully, if you rid yourself of the fears and incorrect beliefs that are the root of your behavior, you could change 100% overnight. What you believe, you will experience, what you experience you will see, what you see you will believe. So, it seems like a rut, a self-fulfilling prophecy, and it can be, but you have the option that you can change it. By changing your belief, you can alter this cycle. Or, if you are daring, simply change your experience so that you will change what you see so that you change your belief. Either method is fine. What is the most effective way to do this? Meditation. While you are in a state of internal relaxation and total silence, you become, not your thoughts, but the observer of your thoughts and are able to be your true self, the one that no longer wants to waste time when there are better alternatives. Oh, and that supposed belief in reality being limited, that will automatically change after a few weeks of successful daily meditation. And if that wasn't the real cause, it doesn't matter, because the successful meditation will root out the cause and resolve it, too. That is the nature of the mind. Willingness dictates healing of the mind and manifestation of the desired goal.