 Jeff LeeWithout details of age, education, relationships, beliefs, achievments, setbacks, health, and mental state, it is hard to assess the depth and breadth of what you perceive. Although, to some extent, it doesn't matter, because you are not what you say you are, and certainly not a loser. You must stop saying you are. The label you give yourself is a belief, a powerful conviction that prevents you from seeing truth and potential. The reason I would normally like to know your age is because, if you were 18-25, I could tell you that you are 100% normal. If you are 30, still living with parents and have never held a job despite having a college degree, I would want to address your motivation. If you are having a midlife crises because you or your parents had set unrealistic goals or you are comparing yourself to persons more fortunate, that is plain silly, because you are you and you are not them. If you are late diagnosis bipolar, a former drug user, or a host of other challenges that result in a late start, your conclusion is invalid. If you are an education drop out, that might change your immediate options, but it doesn't preclude anything. There are people who became doctors at age 55, having to go to a third world country to get into school and lesrn a new language, and give up four years relationship with husband and child to accomplish it. There is nothing stopping you from doing whatever it is that you want, other than your attitude.What is it that you think you should have done that you cannot still do? What it is it that you think you should be doing that is that important? If it is material success, I assure you, it does not bring happiness. The MOST valuable thing in life is your state of mind, and it can be joyous and fulfilling despite poverty, despite loss of spouse, despite being alienated by family, despite incredibly painful and inconvenient physical disabilities. So, please reconsider who you are and work toward peace of mind and happiness. Start by stopping the victim mentality. Have gratitude for your health, your mind, and the love and support of friends. Discover who you are by becoming a mature human. Give to others that which you are uniquely able to give. Be the person you would want to meet, someone who volunteers at the homeless shelter, who reads to small children, has a smile for everyone, is compassionate to old people, who is forgiving of all, someone that is helpful to humanity, and does not judge others. The fact that this will probably attract interesting, loving, successful people into your life is a side benefit, and, if it doesn't happen, you will not care because you will feel fulfilled and may not have time for them, anyway. The optimism and peaceful countenance are not things you strive to achieve, they are the natural result of living a purposeful life. Stop procrastinating, deal with your childish fears by practicing meditation, read up on transcending your ego, learn to love yourself.