 Jeff LeeYes, forgiveness is the most helpful and sane thing we can do for ourselves, and for society as a whole, but, until we reach a stage of acting from an enlightened self interest, we immediately forget this wisdom the next time we perceive that we are wronged. Why is that? The reason we get angry at perceived injustices is due to a very poor self concept, deeply hidden below a facade of confidence. We are conditioned from infancy to confuse unsafe behavior with being bad. Every time a parent stopped us from burning ourselves, getting near the stairs, knocking a glass off the table, poking out the dogs eye, sticking a knife in an outlet, urinating while not diapered or on the toilet, pulling our sibling's hair, running toward the street, drinking the dog's water, wiping our grape jelly smeared hands on the white couch, and a host of other inconvenient or deadly acts, we heard, "No, BAD!", followed by a slap on the hand or worse, sometimes shaken or spanked, and met with an extremely unhappy and angry looking frown from our mother or father. As we got older, it was accompanied by, "look what you did," or "look what you have done to your mother," "why cant you be like your brother," "how did I ever raise a spoiled brat like you?" and threats of lost privileges, threats of spankings, and accusations that we will never amount to anything. Our parents fought, more angry looking frowns, and we assumed it was our fault. Seldom was any attempt made to undo the deep trauma resulting from a constant beratement of our fragile pysche. We are the culmination of tens of thousands of self-assessed, "I am bad," thoughts, whethere mis interpreted or self-repeated. All the while that we were being externally coached about the dangers in our environment and a need to be cautious, we internalized these as being statements about us and our self-concept was being formed, a self-protection set of concepts with which we define ourselves, a mental narration of the do's and don'ts, the should and shouldn'ts, the fearful thoughts about who we can trust, when and where we are safe, desperately seeking favor of others and approval from our parents, looking for someone to say we are good, but deep down, fearful of disapproval, and laced with self-condemnation. Years later, these self-related thoughts form the basis of who we think we are, almost never nourished by healing and loving correction, but buried from our awareness as subconcious fears, beliefs we actually hold that we do not know that we truly believe. We call this, the ego. Every threat is met with cold calculating anger, and often with guilt and self-hatred for having that anger. Every seeming act of disloyalty is labeled "enemy not to be trusted," every judgment against us turned into psychological projection, as, "no, they are the one with that problem, not me," and a persona is formed, which we are not aware is a deeply disturbed and fragile self beneath the surface, with tens of thousands of automatic responses to every person, action, thought, and decision. A chemical brain, fed by quick hormonal reactions, an interconnected set of neural responses that are the sum total of many billions of connections per second, a conditioned subconcious, is acting to form the basis of what is filtered into our concious thought, a mere fraction of the "thinking" going on that we are not aware. Each time that we perceive we are slighted by another, we feel a victim, and in response, we mentally attack all involved. The ego's range of reactions is from suspiciousness to viciousness, and untraining this pseudo-self is not done easily. Becoming the real you, a mature self-actualized person of self confidence and virtue, is the only cure. Most people never do achieve this, even by retirement age. Religion, obsessed with the dogma of judgement and only focused on behavior, helps some people make some progress, however, the root cause is never addressed. It seems to work. It talks of forgiveness, but only after judging, it is not true forgiveness, but a giving-to-get. Only by becoming our highest possible self through transforming the ego, can we reach a point where we are no longer angered by others, because we "forgive them in advance" because we have no fears, no need to judge, we are able to truly love our fellow man as ourselves because we realize that they are all doing the best they can, even murderers, as everyone suffers the same mental illness, addiction to judgments by an unhealed ego.