 Jeff LeeIt is irrelevant and pointless. Telling people what they did wrong all their life is neither kind nor beneficial. Blaming others accomplishes nothing.I am sorry to hear that your life involved some painful lessons and perhaps even more on the way, but blaming others or being angry at others is of no value. Yes, it was important and beneficial to discover what went wrong so that you can participate in well deserved healing, but please don't confuse this benefit of finding the cause with placing blame on either parent. The only way to find peace of mind in this life is to forgive, especially when you are forgiving for what never happened. Your father never said, "I don't want to do anything decent for my ex, so I am going to hurt her son." Nor did he say, "The right thing to do is to maintain a relationship with my son, but he doesn't deserve my time." Your mother never said, "that kid shouldn't be my problem, alone, I am gong to ignore him." Nor did she say, "he doesn't have a dad, so I better make his life hard, because he needs to learn to be tough." Each did the best that they were emotionally and intellectually capable of doing, at the time.Despite best intensions, things go wrong. Not every bad situation has to have a villain, any more than you have to listen to your ego make you the hero of every story in which you are involved. You do deserve mental health and normalcy and love, and it may require the help of a professional counselor to assist in processing the forgiveness and in overcoming some of the typical, "I am bad," " I am not worthy," "I can be abandoned," and "I am damaged goods," conditioning from such an upbringing. It is no one's fault, especially your own. Simply take advantage of professional help. Your story is not uncommon, and therefore almost any family therapist can work with you a half dozen times and either heal you completely or get you well-started to a self-healing program. Neither parent needs to be punished, in fact, having any remorse for either will keep you hooked into a self-defeating mindset. Letting go of any attachment to the history is what is needed, because you cannot maintain two conflicting beliefs at the same time....If you are healed, they are no longer guilty. You also can no longer blame the past or see yourself as victim, for that is at odds with, "I am now OK." Besides the difficult task of listing all the things for which you are grateful, you will probably need to see the irony of the beauty of the past for bringing you to the place you are and the place you will soon be. Best of luck to you as you enter a well-deserved, loving and healing stage of your life!