 Gabriel SeahThe Importance of GradesGrades are really important in Singapore.You need good grades to get into the school that you want, to get a scholarship to study abroad and to get into the university and course of study of your choice.On top of it, many employers look at your grades and course of study when hiring (even for jobs unrelated to the field of study - Engineering for example is a desired degree even for non-engineering jobs). "Good honours" is a common line in job ads (while tuition at the university level is rare, tuition at lower levels gives you a boost which helps you get into the course of your choice, and arguably bolsters your foundations so you can do well later). And if you apply for a Government job, you will be asked to list your O and A level results (exams that one typically takes at the tender ages of 16 and 18 respectively).Let us not underestimate the role that parental bragging plays. Parents love to compare their children's grades, schools and courses of study, and they want their children to be doing better than Auntie Lee's (i.e. their friend's or relative's kids).All this is partly due to the Confucian paradigm, which is shared by other countries with East Asian populations (Singapore has ethnic Chinese as 75% of the population, so it counts). So South Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan and China have tuition cultures too ().You don't have to be good...Perhaps the key here is that grades are all bell-curved (presumably to prevent grade inflation, and/or to segregate cohorts regardless of overall cohort quality), so for example only 20% of a cohort can get an A. In other words, even if you get 99/100 on an exam, if everyone else gets 100/100, you won't get an A. Education is a positional good, in the form of grades.Singaporeans spend so much money on tuition, then, because you don't have to be good - just better than everyone else. So it's an eternal arms race where you're forever trying to do better than the rest. This is Keeping up with the Joneses - for Singaporean children.Positive FeedbackThe pervasiveness of tuition has created a positive feedback loop. Whereas previously tuition was more common in the better schools, it now seems students everywhere go for it. So we now have teachers outsourcing work to tuition teachers or agencies.One case was reported by the Straits Times, the National Daily (The Straits Times Blogs):barely two weeks after the boy entered Primary One, Miss L received a phone call from his Chinese teacher.Of the 30 students in her class, the teacher said, 28 already knew Hanyu Pinyin (the romanisation system for Mandarin), even though she was only supposed to be teaching it in the months ahead. Miss L's son was one of the two that didn't.The teacher said she couldn't hold 28 kids back for the sake of two.Miss L promptly bundled her son off to an intensive Hanyu Pinyin class that cramped 6 months' worth of curriculum into 8 sessions.The best part, my old classmates and I learnt, was that this took place not in an elite school, but in a neighbourhood school, somewhere in Tampines.For context, students in Primary One are aged 7 years old. So in the year of their entry into formal schooling, 93% of a class in a neighbourhood school (a colloquial term for not-so-good schools) were going for Mandarin tuition.This outsourcing of work to tuition agencies is also because of the "Teach Less, Learn More" policy (meant to reduce pressure on students, reduce rote learning and explore more innovative ways of learning). As one teacher comments,'Teach Less Learn More' but do it in less time and yet get students to ace national examinations - that becomes a real challenge for many educators.(National Institute of Education (NIE), Singapore)Unsurprisingly, one easy way to do this is to let private tutors do the job.Root Causes?One might ask why this phenomenon of tuition has gotten worse.I went through the formal education school in the 90s, and things weren't quite as bad. Yet it seems nowadays everyone goes for tuition, and you see private education/tuition agencies everywhere nowadays (in the past it tended to take the form of one-to-one tutoring).I would finger two factors: immigration and harder exams.ImmigrationIn recent years we have had more and more immigration in Singapore. Yes, almost everyone complains about immigration nowadays, but it is plausible that it has effects even on the young.Immigration is not just limited to the working population. Students from all over Asia now study in Singaporean schools - not just the good schools but also the not-so-good ones.Foreign students are mostly very hard-working. After all they have come from a foreign country (and since they come from Asia, many are from poor backgrounds) and so make the most of their chances and study really hard. Since they typically have no family in Singapore and don't have many friends, they spend a lot of time studying. Because their parents are not here (and their parents wouldn't have the Singaporean kiasu [i.e. fear of losing out] mentality anyway) they also don't go for piano, speech and drama or what-have-you classes and thus have more time to study.Since we have the bell curve in effect, local students must thus work harder to keep up. In other words, they have to run faster to stay in the same place (i.e. the Red Queen hypothesis).Let's look at some numbers.In 2012, there were 51,000 foreign students in government-run schools and institutions, including the polytechnics and universities (Foreign student numbers drop sharply after climbing steadily). In 2013, there were 473,375 students in Primary, Secondary and Mixed Level schools and Junior College/Centralised Institute (Page on moe.gov.sg), 26,288 students in the Institute of Technical Education (ITE), 3,290 in Lasalle and NAFA, 79,970 in the Polytechnics and 59,748 in the Universities.So about 8% of students in government-run schools and institutions were foreign students. While not that high, this is significant enough to impact the dynamics of the education system, not least due to the trickle down effect (for example a student who might have gotten an A without foreign students now gets a B, one who might have gotten a B now gets a C and so on).Harder ExamsSchool in Singapore has become harder over the years.In the past, parents used to help their children with their schoolwork at the primary level, but now primary school students must answer exam questions that stump most adults (Parents complaining about difficult PSLE maths paper, WOW PSLE MATHS QUESTION SO HARD).Naturally, parents who are unable to help (i.e. most of them) pass the job over to tuition.Ironically, this is probably partly due to the "Teach Less, Learn More" and similar policies. Whereas in the past there was an emphasis on rote learning, the reduced emphasis on it means now other ways must be found of assessing students.Normally this would lead to less stress, but because students (and parents) want to ace the modified exams, they go to private education to learn techniques to ace them that don't just rely on memorisation.A Way Out?This is the bit where I say something clever and/or optimistic to make you feel good.Unfortunately, the problem is so entrenched that I can't see a way out.Even our eminent Ministers don't see a way out, with former Education Minister Ng Eng Hen proclaiming that "We're not as bad as the Koreans" and "It's innate in our Asian culture" (Tuition culture here not as bad as elsewhere, Hansard: Page on parl.gov.sg), in response to concerns about tuition culture.So between the system existing as it is, Confucian culture, kiasuism and a national ideology of meritocracy (where school grades are seen as a measure of merit and worth, and are currency that entitles one to a good life), there isn't any way out except to not have children, to have children overseas or to have children but be contented that they may not be the human resources that Singapore wants them to be (in other words, they may fail at the socially-important metrics like grades in school, but you can look at broader measures of success).