 Many factors make some languages more desirable to be learnt by people. On the global stage, English has emerged as the de-facto language that would make you most likely to be understood around the world. Some of the factors that contribute to this are:English is spoken in several countries around the world, so even passing competence in English is more likely to help you be understood around the world, whereas even expertise in Turkish is largely useless outside of Turkey. For a lot of people, the pragmatics of being able to communicate to a larger group of people far outweigh whatever motivations they may have for learning niche languages.English is massively culturally exported. Hollywood in particular and the American entertainment industry in general have given the world countless movies, TV programming, songs and the like that play over the radio or can be seen on TV no matter what country you are in. On the other hand, while some people might like Turkish music and watch Turkish movies outside of Turkey, Turkish culture has a significantly smaller active impact on the world.Because of the above factors, the knowledge of English often increases people's mobility, employability (and often, provides access to a much greater pool of information, or resources), much more compared to knowledge of relatively niche languages. If you look at the above points, you'd notice that they are largely interconnected. Each strengthens the other and it's the synergy across them all that makes English such a no-brainer of a choice around the world when it comes to choosing a language to learn. The following factors have little to no influence on most people's decision to learn a language: How old / culturally rich the language is: while this is of ample academic interest and would also interest literature / history enthusiasts, the fact that English is at least 600-700 years old has little to do with people learning it.How many people (pure numbers) speak the language: The spread of a language is much more important. A third of the world speaks Mandarin (or a close variant). Who cares? They are all largely concentrated in one part of the world. The Chinese stand to gain much more by learning English than the other way round. Likewise for Bengali. It's spoken by 210 million people. A very impressive figure, until you realize that most of them are in a very small part of the world (West Bengal and Bangladesh).Now let's move to Indian languages. As a language spoken in several Indian states, and understood to some extent by most of North India, Hindi lends itself more naturally as a lingua franca even in places that don't have it as a native language. With larger movement of people across the country, especially to IT hubs such as Bangalore, Hyderabad, and to some extent Chennai, Hindi is now establishing itself as a fairly staple language of these parts too. Note that this does not mean that Hindi is the only language there or that people do not speak local languages or English: there are tonnes of people in South India who do not speak Hindi. But a (only) Hindi speaker will be better off on the streets of Bangalore than a (only) Malayalam speaker on the streets of Chandigarh. So, it's a simple question of pragmatics outweighing everything else. A lot of people are not specifically enthusiastic about going out of their way to learn a new language. I mean, they would probably try to learn basic vocabulary and some abuses (which everyone loves to pick up), but they will do only as much is necessary to get by. If they are naturally immersed in the language, they would largely pick it up organically anyway. So I don't think it's so much about hesitation as about not having to.