 Consultancy firms usually like to see excellence in whatever you want to do (usually called spikes in the resume, and I will use that term here without loss of generality) and in my experience with the IIT process, usually aren't too picky about any one kind of excellence. The ideal profile of course has more than one spike, but I have seen loads of people getting shortlisted for interviews with excellence in just 1 domain (or a bunch of very closely related domains). Some of the 'standard' examples (but by no means exhaustive) of strong profiles in particular domains are:AcademicTop of the class with a very good CPI (say DR 5 or better, and 9+). Research experience, especially at reputed institutions. If papers / patents, then even better. Other awards or achievements surrounding academics.Cultural / SportsDomination or significantly wide-spread participation, victory and involvement in a culture genre / sport, including wins at various level such as intra- and inter-college levels. Any other formal acknowledgment if possible.OrganizationalStrong leadership roles at hostel or institute level or those involving large projects or dealing with a lot of people. and so on... In each of these, you'd notice that the usual expectation is that you do whatever you are doing really well. There do exist small differences in the preferences of the top 4-5 consulting firms. I have noticed, for example, that one of them has been focusing on very stereotypically academic profiles in the last 2-3 years, while another focuses rather strongly on people with organizational experience. A CPI of 8, however, while being good, probably isn't amazing enough to be a spike, but you should hope that your other academic achievements make up for it.From what you describe, I imagine that at least some consulting firms would find your profile interesting, though they might be a bit skeptical of whether you really want to be in consulting, given that your profile is particularly well suited for academia and research. This is something you have to first convince yourself of, and then the firms you apply to. Best of luck!