 One of the top answers on this page (by Robert Frost) suggests that "Be a man" means to evidence the aspirational characteristics of a grown man, such as strength, bravery and control.If words could mean whatever the heck we wanted them to while ignoring the ground reality of how they are used by society, then I could posit that calling a woman a 'bitch' actually compliments her reproductive ability by assigning her the characteristics of a female dog in heat. After all, that is what the literal meaning seems to be, and there is nothing wrong in being called a female dog anyway, right?Unfortunately, the meanings and implications of words, which they absorb based on the way they are used, cannot just be wished away, and even if the speaker who uses them is clean of intent, they can still have ill-effects."Be a Man" is the kind of exhortation that is almost exclusively directed at boys and men, and is usually in response to displays of emotion or sentiment or 'weaknesses' which are considered fine when done by women. Note that this is unfair to both men and women. I am sure corollaries of the same can be found in cultures around the world. Hindi popular culture has a line Mard ko dard nahin hotaa (A real man doesn't feel pain). This kind of messaging is fairly pervasive in society. For instance, guys who cry are usually asked not to cry like (little) girls. As a side note, I find the societal prejudice against crying rather laughable, since I find it to be of immense therapeutic value.Of course it is true that most people who ask others to 'man up' or to 'be a man' aren't necessarily misogynists themselves. But this name-calling achieves absolutely nothing anyway. You could pluck petals and count 'Misogynist! Not a misogynist!', if you want, and we would get no further as a society unless we figure out exactly why such statements are problematic and correct the problem.As Gayle has suggested in her answer, whether we like it or not, misogynist or not, well-intentioned or not, this phrase (and specifically, its common usage):perpetuates a lot of (hetero-normative) gender stereotypestakes some supposed ideals (such as excessive stoicism) and sets them up as specifically associated with menassociates the negative quality of the lack of said dubious ideals with the female genderA certain amount of stoicism in the face of adverse circumstances is a positive quality, but encouraging (or rather peer-pressuring / bullying) people to bottle their emotions up forever because displaying them is unmanly is hardly the ideal we want to set up as a society anyway, as Eivind has pointed out in a long comment debate below one of the answers.Moreover, I find this phrase pretty indefensible even if we were to ignore the 'display of emotion' aspect and focused entirely on stuff like bravery or altruism. As cliche as it sounds, kids should rather be getting the message that they ought to be brave because they are good human beings, and not just because they are boys / men who have to act as knights in shining armor for their fragile princesses.Back when I was in primary school, if any of the boys had very long hair, the biggest threat the teacher used to offer was that if the kid didn't get a haircut soon, they'd put a clip / band on his head. These are kids in single-digit ages, and they are already learning that society considers it embarrassing for guys to be like girls.I could go on and on and cite examples, but I hope I have made my point. This kind of harmful messaging is all-pervasive, and phrases like "Be a man" are instances of the same, no matter what their original, optimistic intention be. I should point out here that "Be a lady" is almost equally regressive. A phrase sometimes found in Hindi stories is   (literally: diffidence / shyness fit for a lady). We no more want to teach girls they should always be diffident and shy than we want to teach boys that they should suck it up and not cry.When people talk about empowering women and removing gender divides, they focus largely on reducing rape and increasing employment for women. Most of us never realize the inimical effect of all these tiny but constant and ubiquitous signals that we as a society send to ourselves.I know all this seems like petty nitpicking, but I hope that we all agree that, as a society, we should be moving away from such normativity and especially from deriving modern-day ideals from the middle-ages.We cannot stem all of it, but the least we can do is to not actively condone it.