 I mean, I can understand if we want more people to know about Sanskrit, but I don't get the obsession with wanting to revive it, or trying to shove it down people's throats. The sad part is that when it comes to nationalistic sentiments, we are faced with a perilous dichotomy:At one end, we have a breed of Indians who feel ashamed of showing any association with their cultural background. These are the kind for whom Yoga was uncool until the west appropriated it and made it fashionable. On the other end, you have those who credit everything from Cold Fusion to In-Vitro Fertilization to ancient Indian culture and spread half-truths and outright lies. And don't even get me started on the absolute nonsense that is generally spewed about Sanskrit, a language that deserves so much better.Both these extremes are ridiculous and untenable, and yet, these are the ones we keep encountering most often.Other answers have talked about making people feel proud of the past. Apparently Sanskrit is now charged with the gargantuan task of providing a nation of a motley group of 1 billion people a sense of common identity. Keeping aside the futility of the project, I'm pretty supportive of showcasing the laurels from our history, but with two giant caveats: correct messaging and intellectual accuracy and honesty.Correct messagingWhat is the undertone of the exposition? Usually I see outright racism or pointless chest-thumping. It is one thing to say, "Hey look at the cool stuff our ancestors did". It is another to say "My Daddy strongest! We were awesome, then foreigners came and now we are useless" or "North Korea, best Korea!"Accuracy and honestyFor every explanation of how the quadratic formula was derived by Indian mathematicians, we get 10 versions of how the Hanuman Chalisa proves that Hanuman jumped to the Sun because somehow distance * time = distance (I won't give links. If interested, feel free to Google "Hanuman Chalisa Yojan Proof" and you will get countless websites regurgitating this). For every explanation of how the Astadhyaayi cleverly encodes grammatical rules, we get 10 instances of "Sanskrit is the most beautiful, most unambiguous language in the world, Sanskrit sounds are a linear combination of all the sounds of the world".Until we fix these two, I don't want kids to be fed random trivia interspersed with lies and propaganda delivered with inimical messaging. [1] I am not using that term lightly. A lot of what is claimed about Sanskrit is nonsensical and cannot even be assigned a truth value.