 I understand it would hurt to feel so disconnected with your son. While I cannot fix this directly, I'd try and help you with potential reasons why this might be so, and you could introspect a bit about whether they apply to you. Now, just to clarify, although I'd appear to be blindly favoring your college-going son, I am no apologist for our generation. I don't think we are blessed with exceptional intelligence or insightfar from that, we are winging it, like everyone else.I am going to talk about three things: Conflict, Autonomy and EscalationConflictMost people take the path of least resistance; they will tell you whatever lies you need to hear in order to minimize the conflict in everyone's life. What lies you get depends on what conflicts you mutually create. Sample this:Instance 1: (Son is out having dinner with his friends. His dad calls him)Dad: Kya kar raha hai? (What are you doing?)Son: Dinner karne aaya hoon baahar. (Ive stepped out for dinner)Dad: Jab dekho baahar ghoomta aur khata rahta hai. Mess hai na tere yahaan? (I see you going out all the time. You have messing facilities in the hostel, right?)Instance 2: (Son is out having dinner with his friends. His dad calls him)Parent: Kya kar raha hai? (What are you doing?)Son: Kuchh nahin, mess mein dinner kar raha hoon (Im having dinner in the mess)Parent: Yeh gaane ki aawaaz kahaan se aa rahi hai peechhe se (Why do I hear music in the background?)Son: Wo side mein lounge mein dance practice chal rahi hai... (Erm, they have a dance practice session in the lounge)The truth is that you cannot realistically control every single living moment of your children's lives, especially not when they become adults themselves. So you have to resign yourself to the fact that they are going to do what they want to anyway. If you frequently express disapproval of their activities (in some cases, your disapproval may be justified, but that doesn't matter), they will probably just stop telling you about what they do. If it creates conflict or unnecessary headache or drama, it will be avoided. For instance, if your first reaction on hearing that your son has a girlfriend is one of anger (or worse: OMG! You have a girlfriend? No kissing! Get married soon!), you are pretty much guaranteeing that your son will never talk to you about his love life. Ultimately, unreasonable or excessive expectations are not going to be met with compliance. They are going to be met with defiance and deception. The question is, do you want them to live lives so secret that you don't even know them as persons any more, or do you want to actually be connected with who they really are? If you want to be a part of their lives, you'd have to relax a bit on trying to judge and control them.Note that this does not even need to be directed to your kid. If you make disapproving remarks about your neighbor's son getting a girlfriend, be assured your son is going to hide his from you. If, for instance, you made homophobic remarks while watching a movie or flipping through news channels reporting about 377, you can bask in the assurance that your gay son will never come out to you. Now, this is obviously not easy. After all, your values are not merely a fashion statement. You hold them because you, to a large extent, sincerely believe in them and subscribe to them. But every generation rebels. 30 years ago, people might have prided themselves for having a 'love marriage'. Many youngsters today take that to be the bare minimum.These differing versions of morality across