 But what I do believe is that being a virgin myself and having decided not to lose it before marriage ( yeah! that may sound alien, but that is true!) , I deserve to ask for a virgin girl. Well, deserve is a fairly loaded kind of word, and I don't think you necessarily deserve anything in such a case, so it'd be best to not approach the issue with a sense of entitlement. Your decision to not have sex before marriage is just thatyour decision. Others may not care. That's theirs.At an individual level, it is of course perfectly alright for you to want a wife who shares your ideals of pre-marital celibacy, just like it is alright for you to have a preference for blue eyes or long hair or dimples or short height or whatever succeeds in generating the right chemical cocktail in your body. As far as possible, we should try not to police people's liking / preferences.But when individual desires get fossilized and institutionalized, an innocuous preference turns into a much more malevolent societal prejudice.Take, for instance, the issue of sex selection in India. At an individual level, it's perfectly fine to want to have a boy and not a girl. A lot of countries allow couples to 'choose' the sex of their child and the sex ratio of these countries has remained healthy despite this freedom. One hopes that in a large sample of parents, there will be many who'd want to have a girl, and many who'd want to have a boy, and the numbers would even out. But in a country like India, the desire to have a male child has institutionalized itself to the extent that it is no longer possible to expect things to remain in a natural equilibrium. In a similar fashion, virginity has historically and traditionally been associated with arbitrary notions of purity. We know that women have been at the receiving end of long-term institutionalized prejudice, and glorification of virginity is just one face of this many-headed monster. Your ideal of pre-marital celibacy is likely a channelization of the same mindset.And so, coming back to your question. No, it's not really objectionable for you as an individual to want a virgin wife, but you should understand how your innocuous choice isn't necessarily innocuous in the larger scheme of things. And you should understand why most women would take offence at this 'requirement' of yours.[PS: Some commenters are accusing me of 'bashing' OP. I am struggling to find parts of the answer which do this. I think I tried to explain the reason OP's 'choice' may be considered objectionable by people. This is what OP asked in the first place. If he wanted people to agree with him no matter what, he should not have posted the question on a public forum.Furthermore, some commenters have accused me of giving a 'societal' perspective to an 'individual' question. Well, I wrote at the outset that, as an individual, OP has the right to choose what he wants, but that it is important for him to distinguish his choice from his entitlements and to also understand why others find his choice problematic.]