 I have written about this in the About section of my blog Linguistrix, so will cross-post relevant stuff here. There's also a lot of relevant fodder from my SoPs :)For someone who's deeply into Languages and Linguistics, I started rather late. Although my first experience with Linguistics was in Class VIII, when my English teacher taught me how to write the phonetic transcription for English words.I got to know of phonetics, learnt how sounds are produced, how stresses and intonation work in languages, and how the phonemic inventories of the world's languages were so different yet analyzable using the same tools. But it wasn't until after I had taken JEE that I actually started exploring languages. Although linguistics itself isn't necessarily about learning languages, having some background in linguistics does make it easy to pick up new languages. In the largely creative atmosphere of IIT Bombay, I got the opportunity to pursue academic interests peripheral to my major. I studied French and earned the DELF B1 certification. I used audio courses to study elementary German, Arabic and Spanish. I enrolled in a Japanese course and passed the JLPT (Japanese Language Proficiency Test) level N4, after which I promptly took up Mandarin, which I studied for a while. I became a regular reader of LanguageLog, the world's best blog on linguistics, and have learnt a lot from the posts there and gotten exposed to a wide range of linguistic issues. I also read books like 'The Language Instinct' and 'The Atoms of Language', which further piqued my curiosity.I also took an undergraduate course in linguistics, where I found myself in my element. Next, I took a course on Paninian Grammar, in which we studied the linguistic basis of ancient Sanskrit grammatical texts.I figured it'd be interesting to do something that combines my various interests, and Computational Linguistics seemed like a good option. So now here I am, finishing a Masters in Computational Linguistics at the University of Washington, Seattle, and up for hire in the job market!