 The question asks "Why are people showing support or sympathy for Salman Khan?", but most answers here instead seem to be giving reasons for not sympathizing with Salman, and not addressing why there is such a huge outpouring of sympathy for him. Inasmuch that he did something irresponsible that directly led to the death of a person and crippling of others, the court has found him guilty.However, sympathy isn't always rationally calculated after weighing all pros and cons and their expected utilities. It's typically a much more visceral reaction. Likewise, hatred or lack of sympathy is often almost equally visceral, and can be vicious and unreasoned. There are a lot of loosely independent sources which can give rise to sympathy or support for Salman Khan. Needless to say, this is said not in his defense, but is intended to be an attempt at analyzing why people behave the way they do.Let's look at some of them. Fan base: His fan base loves him, and like a lot of loyal fans, is sticking with him in times of distress. Its important to highlight here that Salman Khan has an exceptional fan following who fondly call him "bhai", the ultimate big brother; even the fandom SRK enjoys abroad pales in comparison. Thats the closest Bollywood gets to a Rajnikanth. His hard core fans are his extended family and so their sympathy is largely based on emotion and sentiment: the kind you would expect from your close friends and family (See Point 3).The nature of the crime: Many people (especially among those who are likely to read this answer) may find it easier to empathize and associate with Salman since, in the US v/s THEM dichotomy of lawful citizens and criminals, they would find it more natural to place Salman in the US group.In other words, while they will never imagine themselves in a situation where they would be in a place or time like a lower income group laborer who molests a girl, it is not difficult for them to imagine themselves in a situation like Salman's. People drink, and they often do utterly foolish and irresponsible things such as driving while drunk. After that, it's only a matter of a loose hand on the steering and a lot of bad luck, and you cause someone's death.Bollywood: The sympathy from Bollywood is largely expected. Some extremely tone-deaf and immature remarks from some Bollywood folks were indeed unexpected (you know which ones I am talking about), but barring those, the general sentiment is hardly surprising. He also appears to be generally large-hearted: tonnes of people have tweeted how he helped them out in times of need. You expect family members to support each other, so this reaction from Bollywood, which typically always sticks together as a fraternity, was not unexpected, especially in light of the other points which further help people rationalize the crime.Celebrityhood: Being a celebrity is a double-edged sword. At one end, the police officers and other people involved in this case have been living in hell because of pressure from all quarters. The story of the prime witness (who is now no more) is heart-rending to the say the least. On the other hand, a lot of people know, deep down, that if this were not a high profile case, it would probably never have gone even this far, was very likely to have been settled out of court, with the settled out of court part most likely being a euphemism.Like I mentioned above, sympathy is only loosely connected to lawfulness. A person who uses a legal loophole to rob an old widow of all her money and belongings and bring her to the streets may have 'technically' done nothing wrong, but is likely to get a lot of public hate. Likewise, being wrong does not preclude someone from getting sympathy.Prison sentences have to end up serving the dual role of keeping dangerous elements away from the society, and providing a disincentive for people by punishing them for breaking the law. Typically, these two often get treated differently by people. For instance, everyone seemed to sympathize with Ravindra Patil (the prime witness) when he said that he was put in prison with hard-core criminals for repeatedly failing to appear in court. All in all, the outpouring of support for Salman is not entirely unexpected. Whether it is unreasonable or not is a call I would leave for the reader to make. This answer is likely to be misconstrued and misinterpreted, so it bears repeating: it is intended not as a defense, but rather as an attempt at analyzing why people (have) behave(d) the way they do (did).(Thanks to Alankar for help with parts of the answer)