 I dont think Mood Indigo or IIT Bombay are at fault just because Palash Sen said something during Mood Indigo. As a matter of fact, if anything should tarnish IIT Bombays reputation, it should be the fact that Palash Sen said nothing that is not already expressed overtly or covertly in the male-dominated culture of the institute [1]. The fact that most of the crowd cheered him instead of booing him is more telling. However, these are useful lessons for the future for everyone involved.Is Palash Sen sexist at heart? Does he lack respect for women? I don't know nor do I care. So, articles trying to prove that he is not sexist because he treats his coworkers well or because he wrote a song about mothers are not really relevant to the issue. The world probably won't become a better place even if we somehow proved so, because the issue isnt about who he is, but what he did.Specifically over-targeting Palash Sen, baying for his blood, calling for blanket bans on Euphoria, trying to somehow establish that he is sexist and an evil man, and other hyperbolic actions like these serve only to derail the actual issue that the Mood Indigo debacle has highlighted. And it's not often that such issues come into limelight. So lets use this opportunity to step back a bit and take stock of the situation instead of fulminating all over the internet.(In this answer, I will not use words that tend to bucket individual into 'opinion / action groups', such as feminists, misogynists, and the like. Let's attempt to see the whole issue without labels.)The first step is to understand why a certain faction of the society is displeased with what took place at the Euphoria concert at Mood Indigo. Mind you, what Palash Sen said is neither new in content nor category. As far as content goes, I am sure you've all heard stuff like this countless times. As for category, it was very representative of the kind of speech that peddles reductionary class-based stereotypes. There are reasons why such comments are frowned upon, and they have nothing to do with Palash Sen, Mood Indigo, or Euphoria. First, lets talk about stereotypes:Stereotyping by itself isn't always necessarily harmful. The key here is to understand what kind of environment a particular stereotype creates or perpetuates [2]. For instance, in India, you may stereotype Bengalis as fond of sweets, or Tamilians as fond of curd rice. In absence of any other relevant evidence, this is a fairly harmless stereotype. However, if Bengalis are being systematically and unfairly persecuted by other communities because of their fondness for sweets, or if someone who doesnt like curd rice is systematically denying Tamilians equal opportunities just because they are from the South, it is easy to see how invoking such stereotypes would be below the belt.The second thing of note is that merely the fact that a stereotype is statistically correct doesn't make it okay to peddle it. It doesn't take a genius to observe that there are fewer women than men in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) fields, while the reverse may hold for, say, the liberal arts. However, using this as proof that 'men are for brains' while women are for beauty is not correct. Additionally, it is important to realize that a possible reason for not too many women being in STEM fields is the fact that their participation receives significantly more social resistance than that received by men (if any). They also receive a continuous stream of both subliminal and overt messaging that discourages them from pursuing these fields. And when some of them do get into institutes like the IITs, they enter a male dominated world where guys are taught that IITian girls are ugly and non-male and what not. As if that were not enough, entertainers come to their cultural festivals and peddle this very stereotype again. And again. And again. Do you see why this is a problem?Two negatives stereotypes don't cancel each other. Saying 'girls are for beauty' doesn't become alright just because you also say 'boys are for intelligence'. A couple of answers here seem to suggest that it's okay for someone to peddle patriarchal stereotypes if everyone is equally insulted. Sorry, but it doesn't work that way. Saying that boys shouldn't / can't cook is as bad as saying that girls shouldn't / can't,