 I think the golden standard for pranks is that, at the end of it, the prankee enjoys it, or at least, can derive fun / humor out of it. This usually rules out most pranks that cause physical harm, or put the person in considerable danger. Dangling someone from their feet over a ledge would mostly count as bullying, not pranking, for example, even if you have no desire to drop them.Also, I hate 'Crying Wolf' style of pranks, where you give your well-wishers a false alarm for the sake of a prank. The most recent example I found is a commercial launched by Airtel (idea flicked from a similar Carlsberg commercial). The Airtel (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...) one looks excessively fake and seems to have been terribly executed, but the idea remains the same"Call your friend late at night and tell them that your life is in danger, and that they need to come and save you." I find these to be in extremely bad taste, and just watching the video was so infuriating, that I am sure if any of my friends pulled such an asshole-y trick on me, it'd be the last time I ever had anything to do with them.Stuff that causes fairly short-lived confusion / fear but doesn't otherwise cause any harm is usually kosher. Switching shaving cream for toothpaste, although very flimsy, is kosher. Switching hot water for cold water, which then proceeds to scald the user, is not.Finally, a much milder variation of the 'crying wolf' prank, which I'd illustrate using a personal story.When I was a kid, our school once declared the next day as a holiday for some reason. It wasn't a regular scheduled holiday, so my parents were not aware of it. I went back home, secretly happy about getting a day off, and decided to make a prank out of it. I let my dad in on the prank, telling him about the holiday, but asking him not to tell my mom. I'm a bit hazy on the details but my 'plan' was that I'd wake up a bit late the next day, and delay everything so as to get late for the school bus. Then, when the whole household would freak out and my mom'd probably ask my Dad to drive me to the school, I'd shout Surprise! and reveal the truth. Everything happened as per the plan, except when I yelled surprise, my mom just said quietly"You could have pranked your Dad instead. He gets up late. At least I won't have had to wake up at 4:30 am to prepare your lunch. I could have gotten some extra sleep for a change." I had a chance to choose between a good prank and a bad prank, and I screwed it.