 Here are some things that usually never get told, and I figure they are worth giving a thought to. I'll talk about three things:Eschew Department StereotypesLook for full disclosureHave Fun with AcadsEschew Department StereotypesEver since the day you came to know about your branch allocation, you must have been inundated by pointless, irrelevant and often wrong feedback about your department. It will worsen now that you are in IIT, with every other person commenting on your branch selection and passing along traditional wisdom. If youve taken a low-ranking branch despite getting a high rank, youd be called stupid. If youve opted for Dual Degree when your rank allowed you to choose BTech, youd be called stupid. If you let it be known that you intend to do research in Meta, youd be called stupid. You will soon realize that, as a freshie, its very easy to be called stupid..Its also equally devoid of content. By giving in to department stereotypes, you not only straitjacket yourself, you fall prey to years of prejudice. Choosing Meta is not stupidbut whiling the first two semesters away because you were told Meta is a lukkha branch is. Obviously, branch does matter. All men may be created equal, but all branches certainly are not, which makes it all the more important that you have a realistic idea about your branch, instead of swallowing recycled stereotypical trash hook, line, and sinker.Department stereotypes are self-fulfilling propheciespeople tell you there are no future prospects in X branch, and you spend your IIT life resigned to this fatality, while wiser people go ahead, pursue those prospects, and get them.Eschew Department Stereotypes.Look for full disclosureAs freshies, you would find yourself at the receiving end of advice, suggestions, opinions, recommendations and what not from a wide variety of people (including, rather ironically, from me, through this post). Develop the judgment to figure out whose opinion to take on a particular matter. It is very rare that youd encounter a person who could give you valuable advice across a large and diverse array of fields. The guy who gives you excellent dating advice wont necessarily give you great foreign-internship fundae. And the friend who you trust your deepest secrets with might give you lousy advice about which elective to take.Also, look for full disclosure. Often, a lot of what people would tell you would be tainted with whats good for them instead of whats good for you. Did the hostel sports secy just tell you its not necessary to study for next days Maths Quiz because he wanted you to go cheer for the Hostel Water Polo team? Did a CG/Manager just tell you CPI doesn't matter? Did your neighborhood 10 pointer just tell you extra-currics are useless? No one really wishes you bad, but that doesn't mean you take in everything they say without scrutinizing it and looking for full disclosure.I find it funny when the only credential juniors offer about a piece of info/opinion is "Kisi senior ne bola hai" [Some senior told this to me]. Avoid having "One Stop Seniors". At IIT, you find yourself part of a diverse group of brilliant people. Everyones different, and unique. Theres a huge wealth of experience to tap into. Talk to everyone, but take a smart call about who you would trust best for what.Look for full disclosure.Have Fun with AcadsIIT(B) is not Three Idiots; it is not Rang De Basanti; it is not Main Hoon Na. In fact, it isn't anything like the stereotyped mush that Bollywood (and other mainstream media) feeds you under the all-inclusive heading college life.A common motif in most colleges, and IITB is no different, is a fashionably cavalier attitude towards academics. Its a screwed up system where not only is it OK to not study, its actually socially desirable. Instead of going into a hatred spiral where you teach yourself to not give a fuck about academics, try to look at courses and subjects as something potentially interesting. Obviously, neither all courses nor all professors will be fun, but youll be surprised at how much the quality of your experience would improve if you treat academics with slightly more openness.Ask questions. Interact. Maybe read up a bit. It wont need a change in your schedule. Just your attitude.Dont suck up to profs. But carry an ounce of empathy.Have Fun with Acads.This was originally written for my blog (To Freshies - Antariksh's Blog). Originally, this post was supposed to be a retrospective post about college. I took those elements and condensed them into a few things that Id want to say to the new batch at IIT. Theres nothing batch-specific about the post, though.