 There are many ways in which running marathons seems to be well-placed as a fund-raising activity, and appeals to us more than many other fund-raising mechanisms.From the POV of the fund-raiserRunning is an activity that is accessible to almost all of us. Barring specific cases of handicap, everyone can run, no matter how old, young, thin, fat, tall, short, and no matter what their general athletic condition is. Everyone and their grandmother, almost quite literally, can run. There has also been research demonstrating that the human body is particularly well-suited for long distance running.In continuation of the above, running is largely money-agnostic. Casual runners do not need very specialized gear, and you don't need access to fancy courts or other infrastructure. Feel like running? You can start today. You are rich? Doesn't matter. You are still gonna have to run yourself. Can't delegate it. This is also a kind of fund-raising activity that is not dependent on entry into elite social circles. Unlike, say, high-profile charity events. [Edit: it is true, though, that some marathon events tend to be very elitist and expensive for runners]Running, and the lead up to it when people train for it, promotes a culture of physical fitness. It creates positive idols, so to speak, and is therefore well suited with the whole charity image. Unlike, say, just starvation.A marathon is short enough an event to impact public memory and to attract media attention. If you want to do a 10-day long drawn out thing for charity, people are likely to get bored.From the POV of the donorIt doesn't ask money for a product / service that can otherwise be obtained at a potentially lower price / better quality elsewhere, and thus doesn't give you the feeling of being forced to spend money on something you probably don't need or appreciate. Unlike, say, scout-cookies.Deep down, I imagine that most of us have (not sure whether innate or conditioned) appreciation for raw hard work. Often, hard work and perseverance are considered as the ultimate arbiters, and running is the kind of activity that demonstrates pure, raw, determination and hard-work, untampered by anything else that'd tilt the playing ground. Rather, in continuation of the previous point, it abstracts out any product / service and replaces it with just hard work and perseverance. I will end with a small quote from Three Men on a Bummel by Jerome K Jerome Folks with nothing else to do, nursemaids chiefly and errand boys,with now and then a perambulating costermonger added, would gatheron the common of a fine morning to watch them pass, and cheer themost deserving. It was not a showy spectacle. They did not runwell, they did not even run fast; but they were earnest, and theydid their best. The exhibition appealed less to one's sense of artthan to one's natural admiration for conscientious effort.I think it's this natural admiration for conscientious effort, unfettered by anything else, that appeals to us all the most about marathon events.