 say, drive. Both perpetuate hetero-normative gender stereotypes. Palash Sen's comments feed into the very same patriarchal stereotypes, and are hence being considered to be in bad taste. Not only is mindless stereotyping therefore problematic in itself, but in a lot of cases, this affront comes from a privileged group that was often primarily responsible for causing the marginalization of the group that they are now mocking. Imagine being excessively bullied in school, being made to resent your existence, and then being laughed at by those very bullies for being in the wretched state you are in. Now imagine this happening day in and day out. Whether it be men mocking women, or whites mocking blacks, or the straight community mocking the LGBTQ community, such behavior is not too different from bullying.Whatever be the issue, such cavalier commentary is often so commonplace that most dont even realize that it is potentially harmful, and most dont realize that those who raise voices against it arent necessarily doing it for publicity.The second step is to realize that, as members of a class that has historically been privileged, it is not always easy for people to see or notice this disparity or discrimination. How many of you who are right-handed have noticed that the desks in many classrooms are much more difficult to use if you are left-handed? If you hadnt noticed this so far, that does NOT mean that you hate left-handed people. It doesnt mean that you dont want to help them. It just means that you have hitherto been completely unexposed to the problems of being left-handed because you have been lucky enough to have the world designed for the default setting that you belonged to. And that is perfectly fine. But when someone does point out why this is problematic, I think they deserve to be heard instead of being typecast as pseudo-whatever. IIT Bombay has now officially banned Euphoria. This is a bit like suspending a police officer for taking a 200-rupee bribe, or failing a student for cheating when everyone knows that most others cheated too. Its technically correct, but it doesnt necessarily improve anything in itself unless the system is cleansed too, because the police officer is mostly just a symptom of the bigger problem. [Later edit: I completely agree that celebrities (or anyone with a larger reach) should hold themselves to higher standards than others. But, these standards will come into place only when people realize and accept that there IS indeed a problem if you say in front of 10000 people that women are for beauty and men for intelligence. What annoys me isn't that Palash Sen said those things, but the fact that he so steadfastly refuses to acknowledge that they could indeed be problematic. It is clear that it's not a 'communication gap', since his clarifications are as incriminating as the initial claims. We all do slip up at times, but given time to look back at our actions, we should realize and own up if they were problematic. Palash Sen has refused to do that, and instead chose to bully those who raised their voice.So, not only did Palash Sen not show basic empathy, he: A) Trivialized the protest and mocked the protesters by making the facetious remark that they perhaps wanted to call him sexy/sexiest and not sexist. B) Refused to accept that what he said was problematic in any way. C) Tried to absolve himself of basic responsible behavior by implying that he didn't need to be mindful of what he said because he isn't a social activist.These are not signs of a man who hates women. But these certainly are signs of a man who, though he might respect women, is simply oblivious to the kinds of issues that plague our society. I expect better from our celebrities and role models.]And so, if our educational institutes really care, there is significantly more to be done by way of educating the thousands that pass through them, so that the next time someone says something like this at MI, we dont see statuses on FB suggesting that girls just cant take a joke.P.S. There are some additional issues here, which deserve some discussion, but this answer has already gotten too long, so I will probably write about them on my blog instead.[1] Let's get rid of the misogyny, shall we? - Antariksh's Blog [2] Gender Identity: What is wrong with sex-typing?