 These jokes are sexist and problematic, because they perpetuate stereotypes of women that are considered by some, a good reason to treat women as lesser (less capable, less rational, less reasonable, etc) than men. Many people, not bad people but the kind of people who think that these jokes are OK and have no cost, think that an objection to jokes like this is because some people are resisting gender differences. In their eyes they dont mean to be disrespectful and it is not their intent to demean women, but these gender differences are funny to them. Theyre familiar and it reaffirms their view of the world, that women are a bit difficult to understand (and dont get me wrong, women laugh at these, also there are women out there laughing at jokes about men). Modern feminism understands that there are gender differences in the world, some cultural, some physiological and whether they are social constructs or different bits of the body, these can be accepted to a certain extent as part of life. The issue is when gender differences are used as a rationale for treating women as if they were inferior to men because of these differences. Women being more emotional than men is good example of a stereotype that is so ingrained that people accept this as fact. Now at face value what is wrong with this, if it is fact. Emotions are good right and emotions dont affect someones intellect. The reality is that women being emotional comes with many assumptions, e.g.:That being emotional is problematic.That men arent emotional. That being emotional must mean being less rational or logical.That being emotional overrides someone intelligent decision making.Emotional decisions cannot be rational decisions Being rational is better than being emotionalBeing rational has more value than being emotional.Men are rational. Ergo, being a man is better than being a woman. Having men make rational decisions has more value than women making emotional decisions.As a woman what are we supposed to do now:Convince people that actually were not emotional? or that we are emotional but that has economic value as well?or that we are emotional but capable of being rational as well?or that men are as emotional as women?Or maybe that just reinforcing these stereotypes by making jokes of them is about as meaningful as saying all women have long hair and all men are smelly. Sexist jokes like this are pretty much inescapable, it worth noting though that we get many modern comedians (male and female) who make sexist jokes as a form of highlighting the sexism of society. This doesnt stop them being sexist, but by highlighting just how absurd they are, it is a way of telling people that they think these ideas are ridiculous. The trick is knowing the difference between someone disparaging the stereotype for women or disparaging women with stereotypes.