 There can be some value in more expensive make-up but it isn't necessarily what you would think it to be. Firstly look good is a subjective term, but when people are referring to makeup for the skin they are usually asking about a group of products designed to:Cover perceived flaws, like spots and pigmentation marksGive the skin a more uniform colour all overCover open poresFill-in linesMake the skin appear more matt if it has a problem with appearing too oily and shinyGive the skin more of a glow if it is sallowMake it look moisturised and dewy if very dry The main products designed to do this are:FoundationsPowdersConcealersPrimersIt is a significant area of cosmetics where there is a lot faith based on the idea that premium products are better than budget or mid-priced products. Although to some extent this is reflective of most things, but whereas most women wouldnt necessarily value or want a 100 white t-shirt over a 10 or 20 one, Im always surprised how many women are convinced that an expensive foundation is packed with scientific goodness that the cheaper products just dont have. When it comes to the large companies that most of us buy cosmetics from, there isn't as big a difference between premium and mid-priced cosmetics as magazines and adverts would have you believe. A company as large and as significant as LOreal will have a very large research and development budget in the same way Estee Lauder would have.It is easy to be seduced by some special ingredient like 'Crushed Unicorn Horn', 'Luxuriente FXC' or 'Biolore FN12'. OK I made them up, but then so do they. A large, global mid-priced-range company like Max Factor, has the buying power to put all the Luxuriente FXC it wants in its foundation. So for the most part, I do not believe the average person needs to spend more for cosmetics for their skin as than they can afford. This is not to say there arent some differences with the products and there is one key difference between premium and the mid-priced cosmetics that youll find on the shelves of Boots and Walmart and that is range of colours. Budget and mid-priced cosmetics are bought primarily off the shelf, at the front of the shelf youll see the tester and behind it youll see the stock of that colour. This means that each colour that is part of that range is taking up primary self space, and those cosmetic companies have to justify every shade of every product it wants to have on the shelf. Try convincing Boots that they need to keep that putrid green nail varnish, not because it sells but because it makes the company look oh so trendy to the young folk, but that you want to discontinue pale lilac dove even though they sell 1000 units a week, but the marketing department don't like it because only old ladies are buying it. Yet those are the kind of decisions that the merchandising department will have to make, but there will only be so many loss leaders it can justify, so generally each colour has to 'pull its weight'. Foundation colours really suffer here, and most people struggle to know if their skin is warm sand, golden sand, rosy sand or pale sand, so pulling some of the shades frequently doesnt make too much of a difference to their overall sales as people just go to the nearest colour, and instead they prefer to keep several formulas. The skin colours that really suffer here are the darker skin-tones. Women with a range of skin tones from pale to light olive, may get 4-8 shades to choose from, whereas women with skin-tones from medium olive all way to deep ebony will frequently have only 2 or 3 options  if that!Premium brands dont have the same limitations. They only display testers, so they can justify a much more thorough ranges of colours, the stock is not taking up the prime retail counter shelf and the majority is below in cupboards or just hidden towards the back of the shelves and they can just keep more of the popular colours. So if youre looking for a really accurate skin colour match  or you happen to be one of the millions of women who are darker than 'warm sand', then you may find it a lot easier to go to a premium brand if you want a good match colour for your skin. NB, there are some other differences between premium and mid-priced cosmetics, but I believe that this is the most significant one that will effect just how good your skin looks.