 In most offices you know where you will be sitting every day, it will be a desk that is allocated to you and you know that until youre told to move, you can go to that desk every day. In most offices they will allow you to even personalise your desk area to some degree. Hot-desking is when an office doesnt allocate desks for its employees and you will be expected to use a different desk on a regular basis. Any personal items or work related items that you regularly reference will be stored in a separate area, usually some kind of cabinet or drawer. Sometimes these can be wheeled to the desk youre using that day. Very often laptops are supplied, but this isnt essential for hot-desking as long as desktops are set up for multiple user logins from the network. Pros (some perceived some real)Saves money. Hot-desking is popular in companies with a large number of consultants, as consultants frequently work away from the office on client sites or they work from home, so large savings can be made by having less desks than employees. Consultancies like to maintain nice head offices in the centre of their capital cities, and this will be expensive in cities like London. Having to make space for hundreds of consultants that are rarely in the office seems like an expense that can be spared.Creativity. The first company that I worked for that had hot-desking was a management consultancy. I was working as a Graphics Specialist and had an allocated seat, but the consultants didnt. The official line was that hot-desking was proved to increase creativity. Youre forced out of your routine by sitting near other people. Im not sure if this really works out in reality though.Exposure to different people  widening the employee network. The idea is that employees will end up mixing it up and sitting next to different people most days. Heads of departments will be sitting next to interns. Everyone will be learning off everyone. In reality this is just something to reassure people that this will be a good move, but not how it actually ends up working. ConsPeople tend not to like it. Were territorial creatures and we like our special mug, the photo of our family. We like our printouts of documents, even if theyre all easily accessible online. We all want our small corner of world we can call our own.Possessiveness.There are people who continue to feel territorial over a desk and do their best to make sure they always use the same one. If anyone should get their desk for a day they will do their best to make that person feel uncomfortable so that they dont do it again. This leads