 British office etiquette is a hotbed of hidden traps and unspoken rules. You should consider any work you do secondary to your ability to navigate through this world and here I only lightly touch on the some of the etiquette you need to know. Tea  other hot beverages are available, allegedly In offices all over the UK people have decided rather than quickly go to the kitchen and get your hot drink for yourself when you need it  taking a couple of minutes, it would be much more efficient to get the orders for everyone in your designated area and get tea for between 2 and 10 people at a time. I say tea, but everyones order will be different, sugar, sweetener, semi-skimmed milk, skimmed milk, soya milk, maybe a few sneaky coffees for those continentals or American influenced people, definitely a few herbal teas and not to mention all the cheeky please fill up my water bottles'. Tea rounds often seem to catch people by surprise: 'Oooh tea, should I? Ooh I dont know, Ive had 12 already today  ooh go on then, if you insist  you devil ... hahaha  Ill get the biscuits out'. These people are liars, theyve been desperate for a tea for half an hour but they didn't have the time to do a tea round for 10 people. Theyve even wanted to go to the loo, but were worried theyd get missed. Some people hate this ritual, particularly if theyre not big drinkers and want to get out of the round system. These people are considered odd and eccentric but are tolerated, as long as they make sure they exclude themselves completely, you cant never offer to make drinks but ever accept the offer of others. In fact this last group is probably the most heinous of all people in the office. You will be considered lower than low; your colleagues will be full of contempt for you. On the plus side, youll never ever know this and youll still get offers to make you drinks. This will go on 30 or 40 years until retirement when youll find that everyone has signed your card Best Wishes for your Future Endeavours.Birthdays and other eventsIt is your birthday; you have to buy cakes. You dont like cake? Tough, youre buying cakes. Doughnuts are also acceptable, you can add biscuits as a supplement, but they shouldnt be the main feature. Good news, you dont have to spend a lot of money on cakes, but you do have to appear to be generous. Going to Sainsbury's and buying lots of teacakes and doughnuts will be viewed just as positively as buying a deluxe Opera cake from Pauls; as long as they are plentiful. You should make sure there are enough for everyone and a few stray people who coincidentally happen to be walking by at strategic and opportune times. If at the end of the day there isn't enough cake to feed another half a dozen people, you probably didn't buy enough.On a fairly regular basis a brown envelope will appear on your desk with a list of names some crossed out some not. Inside you will see a card either wishing someone a good birthday, happy retirement, congrats on leaving their job. You may or may not know the intended receiver. You should not say in a loud voice I dont know this person so I wont bother signing it. Tough, trust me when your special day comes around you will know how successful you are as a human-being by the amount of signatures on that card, so start earning good faith now. Signing the card can be tricky but the basics are: best of luck is good if you dont know them, best wishes on your future endeavours works when you hate them. If you actually like this person very much you should write something pretty insulting in the card to express familiarity. For example if a woman is going on maternity leave, you should feign surprise and make a pointed remark about her