 putting on weight. What woman wouldnt be moved to tears at that heart-warming comment? Before passing that envelope to the next person, give it a little jiggle. Does it make a noise? Then get your wallet out and put some money in. Please no complaints about how you always have to donate to these things. Boo-bloody-hoo! Everyone is in the same boat, your financial pressures should not be held out as better or worse than anyone elses financial pressures. Inappropriate office banterNon-British people can often be surprised about how Britain, a country that seems fairly polite and civil on the outside, is actually a hot bed of inappropriate office banter. People making saucy jokes to each other, commenting on various parts of each others anatomy, offering to run away with each other for illicit affairs. Many a hapless outsider has enjoyed this banter so much they have joined in, to suddenly find chairs spun around and having HR walk past their desk at regular intervals for the rest of the week asking how are they. Banter between colleagues is a very difficult thing to get right and not only that, a lot of the people you think are getting it right are getting it wrong but are tolerated for other reasons. Maybe theyve been in the company many years and have earned some latitude. You wont be penalised for not joining in, but you will have problems if you get it wrong. Just smile noncommittally when this is going on and dont be pulled in.Sick leaveSick leave in the UK is generous and most companies will pay you as normal and up to quite a significant amount of time. Some people really abuse this, therefore any sickness is viewed with suspicion. Here are some of the more important rules:Being sick on a Monday is an absolute no-no as people will assume youre still hungover from the weekend. The exception here is if youre actually still hungover from the weekend, then you might as well just take the time off.Being sick on a Friday is an absolute no-no as people will assume youre hungover from the Thursday drinks and/or you just want a long weekend. The exception here is if youre hungover from the Thursday drinks and/or just fancy a long weekend. Then it clearly makes sense for you to take the time off.Being actually sick with coughing and mucus should be something you should get to stay home with, but no, first you must come into the office so that you can be sure that everyone knows youre coughing and there is mucus involved. A couple of days of this should ensure you have people complaining that you should go home and not spread your germs. These will be the very same people who last week were coughing and imposing their mucus on you. Once 2 or 3 people have said this, you can go to your line manager and explain that as much as you want to finish those spreadsheets, youre annoying a lot of people by your very presence and maybe you should just stay home for a few days.Please believe me when I say that these are just the highlights of our etiquette system. The thing that makes us special is not the amount of rules, I'm sure this is the same in most countries, but you'll pretty much never know or be told if you get these rules wrong. You could be happily sitting at your desk thinking you're doing well and actually your cards have been marked because of an unfortunate encounter over a biscuit. If in doubt, avoid doing anything that could be considered controversial or different, even if everyone else is being controversial and different. Coming soon  do not do any of these things before youve read them: Working with people in support rolesThe hierarchy of the officePerformance reviews  giving and receivingOvertimeWorking from homeAfter work drinks