 I think the makers of the more expensive quality brands would argue that their products are better quality and will take longer before they chip and/or peel. For myself personally, I don't make a distinction between price but I do think there are distinct quality differences. Sometimes quality does come at a great price, but yes generally quality costs. The majority of price difference can be put down to packaging and brand, however there a few discernible differences to the more quality brands compared to budget brands that actually affect the product: BrushCheap brands often have long, thin, brush that doesn't apply the product well. The brush 'hairs' will often spread and this means application is harder. You will find that it is harder to paint a neat line near your cuticleQuality brands often have a good quality brush that makes it easier to paint an easy line near your cuticle. No stray hairs make it neater to use. Some brands even shape the brush to make it really easyThe product on the left is from Sally Hansen and cost about twice the product on the right which is from Rimmel. Consistency Get a sheet of white paper, paint a little strip of colour. The more quality products will tend to be smoother and more consistent in application. Top strip is from Rimmel (the cheapest), the second strip is the next price up (Sally Hansen) and the bottom is the most expensive (Nails Inc). ColourNormally the pigment will be better and there may be more of it, which makes the colour more intense, in the more expensive brands. This agains helps with consistency.Although I do notice these differences, I do think they are marginal though. If I liked the colour I'd happily buy the cheaper brand and I think Rimmel is actually great value. I also think with nail polishes if you like to have range of colours then go for the cheaper ones as they all have a limited shelf life and the more use them and the longer you keep them the more separated the colour becomes and you just get clearish gunk at the top of the bottle. Ewwwwww ...