 I worked for global HR consultancy and for four years I was the proposal writer for their Talent and Rewards segment (making some contributions to the Benefits segment). Proposals came in many shapes and forms and I worked mostly in formal bid procedures, responding to RFPs (request for proposals), RFIs (request for information) and pitch documents. I think these are the 5 prime challenges that I found with most proposals I worked on. Limited time and resources. Deadlines are always short, there have been times weve had two days to write a 30 page proposal to a company and other clients are never understanding. In fairness, for that particular example we were actually given one month by the client, for some reason no one actually thought to start on it except two days before, because you know, impossible deadlines are fun. Even when you are given a lot more notice, it is hard to convince people to give up billable hours for a proposal that may or may not be won, and as for getting the senior directors times is even more difficult.Not knowing what the client wants. In large companies RFPs are put together by a procurement team. They have a lot of questions about your company  lots and lots, but sometimes they do have a tinsey winsey problem actually telling you what products or services theyre asking for. Ive gone through 20 page documents like theyre a Wheres Wally book looking for the key information  yep there it is on page 17, sub-section 12, item iv This is what we want, Sometimes the title is a clue RFP for the provision of talent management services. Terrific and what do you think that means oh client dear? And when you are told, it doesnt matter, because the consultant Id be working with already has it in his head what he is going to sell you. Yeah I know you didnt ask for that, but he really really wants to give you that product. My job would be to just convince him to also mention what theyve actually specified  in sub-section 15.Not knowing the specifics of what the client wants. So your client wants a holiday, but where to, for how long, sunny or snowy, how many other people are going? Oh youre not going to say  you want us to guess. Smart, because we cant really give you a price without this information but youve stipulated that costings must be provided and the deadline for questions has now passed and the bloody consultant who was supposed to ask you this information for some reason didnt and now were petrified of over-pricing ourselves. With this situation you just have to make a lot of assumptions, but you dont want to over-price based on those assumptions, so you price for a core product or service, you can add an extra section for other services and you make sure it is clearly scoped what this would include.Bizarre, seemingly irrelevant questions. Some of the questions asked by a company are about due diligence could be extremely broad and generic in order to cater for all vendors. Ive had to answer the most bizarre questions that have nothing to do the product. They are there to ascertain how safe your company is to be their supplier. What makes you safe is very broad, from your ethics policy to how many deaths happen globally in your company.Making it interesting to read. You cant just plonk a 60 page document on someones desk and hope theyre not too busy to read your dry text on just how great your product is. Sure they asked for it, but unless it is interesting to read theyre just going to skim it and you risk your message being lost. One of the things that I felt was really important is to make as much as possible visual. A lot of information can be conveyed in infographics that can be viewed in an instant. It is an extremely efficient way to convey information and this had the advantage of breaking up text into more manageable sections. 