 to other people resenting that someone has acquired a permanent desk.Inefficiencies of working. Some people need to work collaboratively, yet dont want to make any more effort than spinning their chair around to talk to their co-worker. Even if theyre willing to get up, in a large office this may mean it takes 5 minutes just to go visit your colleague on another floor. Not efficient if you have to work closely on a project. These can be overcome, but require forethought and planning. Consultants who may be on various projects, which means various teams, may find this harder to plan for.Less visibility. More flexibility on working from home is usually necessary when reducing desk numbers. This in itself is not a problem, but most companies would like employees to pay regular visits to the office. This is harder to insist upon and enforce if youre not sure where your team is.How does it work? There are many systems for hot-desking and there are companies that charge money for implementing these systems, but they are mainly based on two themes.Free for all. Pretty simple - first come first served, just walk in and pick your desk. The early birds will get their preferred desk, maybe something to put in the pro list for employers. This system doesnt cost money and works if you have enough seats for most employees. The less employees you have, the better the ratio needs to be for desks to employees. However if you have a large number of employees it is less risky to assume that not everyone will be in every day and still everyone will get a desk.Booking system. The typical system is to have an electronic system where you book your desk in advance. This guarantees that you will get a desk when you go to work, or you know not to go in. What tends to happen is that people book the same desk for weeks in advance, regardless of whether they are 100% sure they need it. The better system has some way of releasing your desk if you dont use your desk by a certain period, so that someone else can use it. It means teams can book seats next to each other as well. My last company tells me the even have a phone app to book and cancel desks as well. In very large companies, where they have a relatively low ratio of desks to employees, they may also have a mix of these systems, where there is a booking in system, but there is also an area of unallocated desks that you can just sit in, whilst waiting for a desk to be allocated.Overall though, people do get used to this system, even though from the employee perspective it isnt ideal, it doesnt seem to cause any real issues.