 In most offices you know where you will be sitting every day, it will be a desk that is allocated to you and you know that until youre told to move, you can go to that desk every day. In most offices they will allow you to even personalise your desk area to some degree. Hot-desking is when an office doesnt allocate desks for its employees and you will be expected to use a different desk on a regular basis. Any personal items or work related items that you regularly reference will be stored in a separate area, usually some kind of cabinet or drawer. Sometimes these can be wheeled to the desk youre using that day. Very often laptops are supplied, but this isnt essential for hot-desking as long as desktops are set up for multiple user logins from the network. Pros (some perceived some real)Saves money. Hot-desking is popular in companies with a large number of consultants, as consultants frequently work away from the office on client sites or they work from home, so large savings can be made by having less desks than employees. Consultancies like to maintain nice head offices in the centre of their capital cities, and this will be expensive in cities like London. Having to make space for hundreds of consultants that are rarely in the office seems like an expense that can be spared.Creativity. The first company that I worked for that had hot-desking was a management consultancy. I was working as a Graphics Specialist and had an allocated seat, but the consultants didnt. The official line was that hot-desking was proved to increase creativity. Youre forced out of your routine by sitting near other people. Im not sure if this really works out in reality though.Exposure to different people  widening the employee network. The idea is that employees will end up mixing it up and sitting next to different people most days. Heads of departments will be sitting next to interns. Everyone will be learning off everyone. In reality this is just something to reassure people that this will be a good move, but not how it actually ends up working. ConsPeople tend not to like it. Were territorial creatures and we like our special mug, the photo of our family. We like our printouts of documents, even if theyre all easily accessible online. We all want our small corner of world we can call our own.Possessiveness.There are people who continue to feel territorial over a desk and do their best to make sure they always use the same one. If anyone should get their desk for a day they will do their best to make that person feel uncomfortable so that they dont do it again. This leads to other people resenting that someone has acquired a permanent desk.Inefficiencies of working. Some people need to work collaboratively, yet dont want to make any more effort than spinning their chair around to talk to their co-worker. Even if theyre willing to get up, in a large office this may mean it takes 5 minutes just to go visit your colleague on another floor. Not efficient if you have to work closely on a project. These can be overcome, but require forethought and planning. Consultants who may be on various projects, which means various teams, may find this harder to plan for.Less visibility. More flexibility on working from home is usually necessary when reducing desk numbers. This in itself is not a problem, but most companies would like employees to pay regular visits to the office. This is harder to insist upon and enforce if youre not sure where your team is.How does it work? There are many systems for hot-desking and there are companies that charge money for implementing these systems, but they are mainly based on two themes.Free for all. Pretty simple - first come first served, just walk in and pick your desk. The early birds will get their preferred desk, maybe something to put in the pro list for employers. This system doesnt cost money and works if you have enough seats for most employees. The less employees you have, the better the ratio needs to be for desks to employees. However if you have a large number of employees it is less risky to assume that not everyone will be in every day and still everyone will get a desk.Booking system. The typical system is to have an electronic system where you book your desk in advance. This guarantees that you will get a desk when you go to work, or you know not to go in. What tends to happen is that people book the same desk for weeks in advance, regardless of whether they are 100% sure they need it. The better system has some way of releasing your desk if you dont use your desk by a certain period, so that someone else can use it. It means teams can book seats next to each other as well. My last company tells me the even have a phone app to book and cancel desks as well. In very large companies, where they have a relatively low ratio of desks to employees, they may also have a mix of these systems, where there is a booking in system, but there is also an area of unallocated desks that you can just sit in, whilst waiting for a desk to be allocated.Overall though, people do get used to this system, even though from the employee perspective it isnt ideal, it doesnt seem to cause any real issues.