 whole segment, but the whole company, unfortunately to my detriment. I was supposed to work 9am to 5pm, but I started at 8am and most nights I was there until 9-10pm, if I left at 7pm Id always get someone pleased for me that I managed to leave early. It was several years before anyone told me I should have been expensing my dinner and taking a taxi home, just like everyone else did. This went on for a long period of time, I kept telling my boss that I couldn't sustain the long hours and I was having to turn a lot of work away and she just kept stressing that once I prove that we had enough work she would increase our resources. I remember one day I had several deadlines due for that day, and someone came to me to push for one more piece of work. I reviewed their work compared to the work of the others and as it was not client facing for that day, so I decided it that it would have to wait. They went straight to my boss, who insisted it got done. I got it done, and 5 minutes after getting it done, I fainted and had to be sent home in cab. Luckily someone advocated on my behalf and we finally got a replacement for the part-time worker we had lost the previous year.Although I increased our chargeable work by a significant amount and changing us from a cost centre to a profit centre, there was no credit given to me, and all of this was dismissed as me being a social butterfly who had the consultants eating from the palms of my hands. I can only assume I would have gotten the promotion if I managed to increase our chargeable work whilst maintaining an antagonistic relationship with my internal clients. Despite all this I did eventually do fairly well and I even got to work a year abroad. Unfortunately at this time I also had to move flat in England and I had some issues with my expense receipts for my phone bills. I explained this issue to the Project Director and was told that this wasnt a problem, I could submit my expenses in the new year. In the new year when I submitted my expenses I was told hard luck I could no longer submit them and that was nearly 1,000 lost. My boss at the time was sacked for unrelated issues and there was no way of recouping this loss. A few years later I finally got the promotion but in a different role. It meant taking a lead in some areas and having to speak up in meetings. My suggestions would frequently be dismissed as not useful until 5 minutes later in the meeting when someone else would coincidently have the exact same thought as me and it instantly became the best idea ever. I asked my line manager what she thought was happening and how I could improve how I communicated. Her response Did all the other men in the meeting happen to be men?. Well yes indeed they were and I was then told to get used to it. Strange as it may seem the examples for this last company are just more numerous because I actually liked this company the best and stayed there the longest. There were definitely good aspects to working for them, but this is the worst of it.