 As I've discussed before (Are there languages that have more than three grammatical genders?), the word gender historically did not refer primarily to biological sex at all, but to a grammatical concept in which words are divided into different classes for purposes of inflection. [1] This is because gender comes from Latin genus, which simply means 'kind' or 'sort'. The Oxford English Dictionary, for example, notes this example from a Middle English grammatical text, ca. 1450:How many thyngis falleth to a noun? Sixe..: qualite, comparison, gendre, noumbre, fygure, and case.Because gender still retains this original meaning of an abstract grammatical category, it is quite reasonable to talk about nouns in a language having multiple genders to refer to nouns that are masculine, feminine, animate, inanimate, rational, irrational, long, short, high, low, round, flat, etc. Most languages in the world do not grammaticalize such concepts as formal categories, but in those that do, it is quite common for a language to have five or more genders, as you can see in this map from WALS:The record comes from the Arapesh language of Papua New Guinea, which has at least nineteen genders in some varieties. (In some traditions of grammar writing, such systems are called noun-class systems, but there is no substantive difference between gender and noun-class as metalinguistic terms.) Now, when we talk about gender as a grammatical category, we are implying that there are rules of the language that depend on that category. This means that there must be some sort of agreement, whether morphological or anaphoric, and not just nouns that refer to specific kinds of thing like queen or policeman. Thus, in English, there are no gender affixes to distinguish masculine from feminine genders, but if you say 'The Queen said he's in trouble' you assume that Prince Philip has mouthed off again, because the Queen couldn't be talking about herself because of the anaphoric agreement between the noun and the pronoun. Thus, contrary to the question, English does have a gender system -- just one that does not function the same way as French or Russian.The Origin of GenderSo, why would languages even have gender in the first place? The answer has to do partly with noise. When people speak to each other, there is almost always something else going on -- birds singing, doors shutting, other people talking -- and languages have developed all sorts of redundancies to vitiate this signal noise. By having formal devices that redundantly cross-reference the subject matter in a sentence, listeners are much less likely to misunderstand what is being said, and so much less likely to misbehave accordingly. Thus, even if the genders were purely formal, in which members did not share any semantic traits at all, gender agreement would still be useful.As for specific languages, it is always necessary to refer to the specific history of grammaticalization in specific languages, and we often do not know enough about that history to be certain why a particular gender system arose. English is an Indo-European language, and we know enough about Proto-Indo-European to believe that at some early stage PIE had two genders, animate and inanimate (a system attested in the earliest language to branch off, Hittite). Later, it developed a set of suffixes specifically for feminine entities, thus producing the classical three-way masculine~feminine~neuter split seen in languages like Latin, Greek, Sanskrit and German. So, why did PIE have an animate~inanimate contrast in the first place? We just don't know, since we don't know enough about how Indo-European relates to other language families to make even good guesses about this aspect of its grammar.In the case of English, we inherited a three-way gender system from Indo-European via Proto-Germanic, which like continental languages was formal: Old English man 'man' was masculine because it agreed with the article se 'the (masc.)', while wifman 'woman' was also masculine in gender, because it also agreed with se and not with feminine so or neuter t. Because in English most of these agreement patterns were borne by affixes in rather convoluted case-number paradigms, even a small unrelated sound change like the loss of final vowels could upend the entire system, and this is exactly what happened. In many languages, this would have led to the loss of gender entirely, but because English preserved gender contrasts in pronouns, the system was changed from a formally defined morphological gender system to a wholly semantically defined anaphoric gender system. The bottom line: gender refers to categories of words, not biological sex, and serves a functional purpose in the languages that possess it.[1] Although 'gender' has been used since the Middle Ages to refer to men and women viewed as kinds of groups, the sociological concept of gender as the cultural differences that distinguish men from women did not arise until the mid 20th century.