 As I've discussed before (Are there languages that have more than three grammatical genders?), the word gender historically did not refer primarily to biological sex at all, but to a grammatical concept in which words are divided into different classes for purposes of inflection. [1] This is because gender comes from Latin genus, which simply means 'kind' or 'sort'. The Oxford English Dictionary, for example, notes this example from a Middle English grammatical text, ca. 1450:How many thyngis falleth to a noun? Sixe..: qualite, comparison, gendre, noumbre, fygure, and case.Because gender still retains this original meaning of an abstract grammatical category, it is quite reasonable to talk about nouns in a language having multiple genders to refer to nouns that are masculine, feminine, animate, inanimate, rational, irrational, long, short, high, low, round, flat, etc. Most languages in the world do not grammaticalize such concepts as formal categories, but in those that do, it is quite common for a language to have five or more genders, as you can see in this map from WALS:The record comes from the Arapesh language of Papua New Guinea, which has at least nineteen genders in some varieties. (In some traditions of grammar writing, such systems are called noun-class systems, but there is no substantive difference between gender and noun-class as metalinguistic terms.) Now, when we talk about gender as a grammatical category, we are implying that there are rules of the language that depend on that category. This means that there must be some sort of agreement, whether morphological or anaphoric, and not just nouns that refer to specific kinds of thing like queen or policeman. Thus, in English, there are no gender affixes to distinguish masculine from feminine genders, but if you say 'The Queen said he's in trouble' you assume that Prince Philip has mouthed off again, because the Queen couldn't be talking about herself because of the anaphoric agreement between the noun and the pronoun. Thus, contrary to the question, English does have a gender system -- just one that does not function the same way as French or Russian.The Origin of GenderSo, why would languages even have gender in the first place? The answer has to do partly with noise. When people speak to each other, there is almost always something else going on -- birds singing, doors shutting, other people talking -- and languages have developed all sorts of redundancies to vitiate this signal noise. By having