 There are a number of misconceptions in this question, and in some of the other answers here. This is because ergativity refers to a pattern of alignment in language, and is not a property of particular nominal or verb forms as such:What we mean by alignment is that the individual arguments of clauses are usually marked in some way to indicate who is acting, or who did what to whom. In intransitive clauses, there is only one actant, but in transitive clauses there are two or more actants, and usually the single argument of an intransitive clause will be marked for a given feature (person, number, gender, etc.) in the same way as one of the arguments of the transitive clause. (This is true of by far the most common alignment types, nominative-accusative and ergative-absolutive systems, though not of course for the other three rarer alignment patterns.)In some languages, ergative marking will show up on both nouns and verbs. This is true of Daghestanian languages, most of which mark the noun for ergative or absolutive case, and the verb for agreement with the absolutive argument in number and gender. For example, in the Hinuq language (a Tsezic language of Daghestan), the nominal subjects of transitive verbs receive a special ergative case suffix, while intransitive subject nouns and transitive object nouns are unmarked (= absolutive case). Some verbs agree in gender and number with the non-ergative argument:(Taken from work by Diana Forker)In other languages, only the verb will indicate the ergative pattern. This is true of Abkhaz, which does not have cases, but does have verbs that agree with subjects, direct objects and indirect objects:(Taken from Hewitt 2005)This table shows the Abkhaz-Abaza verb agreement prefixes. The prefixes in column I show how verbs agree with either an intransitive subject or a transitive direct object, while column III shows how the verb agrees with transitive subjects. Because in Abkhaz there are not any grammatical cases to speak of, the ergative pattern is visible only in the verb agreement system. Such systems are somewhat rarer than ergativity reflected in nominal case. Compare the two following WALS maps: Alignment of verb agreement Alignment of nominal caseAs you can see, a number of languages have ergative case marking systems but nominative-accusative alignment for their verb agreement -- but not all. These kinds of incongruities illustrate the larger point that alignment types like ergativity are patterns of constructions, not patterns of whole languages, and not something inherent in particular morphological affixes.Works Cited:Hewitt, G. 2005. North-West Caucasian. Lingua, 115 (1), 91-145.Forker, D. 2010. 'Introduction to the languages of the Caucasus.' Classnotes.