 The answer is tricky, because it involves piecing apart two different sources of this construction in American English. That's because in addition to Yiddish, this construction also exists in standard German, of which Yiddish is more or less a nonstandard dialect. Here's a screenshot of Google autocomplete if you put in "du willst dass ich soll", a literal (and in German grammatical) translation of "you want that I should":In other words, it immediately comes up with other sentences that German speakers search for in modern German. The problem with the Yiddish theory becomes, then, that at exactly the same time that Yiddish speakers were beginning to enter the United States in large numbers (mostly from eastern European territories of the Russian, Austrian and German empires), an even larger number of non-Jewish Germans were also entering the United States:In point of fact, Germans had already been immigrating in larger numbers since the 1840s. Germans and Yiddish-speaking Jews did not always immigrate in the same way; Jews often ended up staying in large cities, while Germans often moved on inland and became farmers or lived in smaller towns. So if we do a historical search for the rise and fall of this construction, what do we find? It turns out that the construction appears to be rare or nonexistent before the 1840s, and rises right when German immigration to the US begins to rise:(This is a search specifically for texts of American English -- the construction is much rarer in British English, though not nonexistent, and follows roughly the same pattern.) The answer appears to be that the construction already existed in American English before the large-scale immigration of eastern European Jews in the last two decades of the 19th century. This is not proof that standard German is actually the source of the construction, but is suggestive. Here's a possible scenario:  the construction is introduced by non-Jewish Germans in the early to mid 19th century, most of whom move off inland to become farmers and small-town dwellers in the Midwest. Then, later, German Jews speaking Yiddish start arriving in the 1880s and 1890s, and they also use this construction in their English. However, the Yiddish-speaking Jews tend to stay in urban environments on the East Coast, unlike their gentile fellow German speakers. Then, Yiddish speakers begin to be integrated into non-Jewish society at exactly the time that major multimedia corporations are beginning to shape our reading and buying habits in the early 20th century, and voila: a stereotype is born. It is forgotten that the very first immigrants to use this construction were in fact not Jewish at all.Whether this scenario is really true would involve a little extra digging, which maybe I could do sometime.