 I've already discussed some of the features of Georgian that make it unusual: What are the characteristics of the Georgian language? Those structural properties can be summarized as:Exhorbitant consonant clusters, both quantitatively and qualitatively more complex than almost any other language, make simple articulation of the language difficult;The polysynthetic verb morphology with subject and object agreement is complicated, but the way in which specific affixes compete for realization on the verb (see my other answer for details) is highly unusual and counterintuitive from a typological perspective;The system of case assignment, in which the case of the subject changes from one tense to the next (nominative in the present and future, narrative in the aorist, dative in the evidential perfect) is not just conceptually hard to grasp, but it makes language learning difficult because different conjugations of verbs have different patterns, so for each verb you have to learn which of the four major patterns it takes.Some of the most frequent and necessary word forms are not only irregular but also highly counterintuitive, which means you have to learn them early along with the more straightforward parts of the grammar. For example, the verb 'to have' seems like it should be very basic, but you need to know that it takes a dative case subject that agrees with what look like object prefixes, a nominative case object that agree with subject suffixes, and you also need to know whether the possessee is animate or inanimate, because there are two entirely different verbs for 'have' that depend on that fact. Also, these two verbs use different irregular stems in every tense, so they require a lot of memorization.Although the last two centuries has seen a rush of western loan words, the vast majority of Georgian words are still pretty foreign-looking to westerners. And even when Georgians borrow a western word, they often have an indigenous word that is quite opaque: cf. int'ernacionaluri 'international' vs. saertaoriso 'international' (< er-ta oris 'between peoples').So there are a lot of basic structural facts about the language that make it hard to learn even before you think about language pedagogy. But there are other facts about the way the Georgian language is taught and spoken that make it hard:Although the writing system is straightforwardly phonemic, using an alphabet with 33 letters, those letters do not look anything like more familiar Latin, Greek or Cyrillic letters. On top of that, many of the individual letters look very similar, with no less than 8 letters that look vaguely like the numeral '3':  /v/,  /k'/,  /p'/,  /h/,  /q'/,  /p/,  /g/,  /ts/.Very few teachers of the language are nonnative speakers, and this has the implication that when you are first taught the language, you are being taught by people who have solid intuitions about the language, but who never had to learn the language consciously. This means that most teachers of Georgian don't really understand what features of the language are not intuitive for foreigners.Most Georgian language textbooks rely on outdated understandings of linguistic typology and often simply misanalysis of the grammar, and don't do a good job of trying to connect structures in Georgian to more familiar structures in western languages.Perhaps because Georgia was closed off to the outside world until the fall of the Soviet Union, there were historically few resources for people who actually wanted to speak the language. Only recently have major error-free dictionaries and learner's grammars of Georgian become widely available in western languages. For example, one early dictionary mistranslated Georgian saloni as saloon, with the result that Tbilisi is now full of 'beauty saloons':Most Georgians do not have any experience of speaking in their language to foreigners -- because it's spoken by a small number of people, almost all Georgians know three or more languages and they will speak those languages with foreigners. Unlike English speakers, who know they have to speak more slowly and articulate their words more clearly when speaking to nonnative speakers, Georgians have no practice with this, and usually speak to foreigners just as they would to other Georgians. But more than that, it is simply an alien even surreal experience for Georgians, as if your cat began to complain about the quality of TV nowadays. More than once I've begun a conversation in Georgian, only to have the befuddled interlocutor speak back to me in English or Russian or German, such that I have to explicitly explain that I prefer to speak in Georgian. Probably this is also connected to the way the Georgian language is closely linked to Georgian ethnic identity. Foreigners who speak Georgian do not fit the folk-understanding of ethnicity in the Caucasus that Georgians internalize from a young age. Such foreigners cannot be 'placed' and so Georgians do not know how to identify them as in-group or out-group.Georgia is anthropologically speaking a very positive-face culture: the culture prioritizes the needs of individuals to feel belonging to the group rather than individuals' needs for respect of their personal prerogatives and autonomy. The implication for language is that Georgians will speak back to you in a language other than Georgian because they feel they can help you out, rather than respecting your personal choice to use Georgian. Explanation that this is not actually helpful for the Georgian language learner will be met with mystified looks, and they will usually carry on speaking English or Russian or some western language.Finally, most foreigners only come to Georgia after they are well past the critical period (roughly 12-17 years of age) when people can no longer easily acquire new languages -- the brain rewires itself after this point, making second-language acquisition harder. This means, from a cognitive perspective, they simply don't have the same experience of learning Georgian as they would Spanish or German, which can be taught in schools in the west from a young age.Thus in my experience it is a combination of facts internal to the language, and the sociolinguistic context in which it is spoken that make it difficult for foreigners to learn Georgian properly.