 becomes a Georgian word -- except that words that Georgians use, are Georgian. However, to give you some sort of straightforward answer, I went through Aronson's dictionary of Georgian lexemes used in his chrestomathy to get an idea of how frequent loanwords are in actual modern texts. Based on that (very superficial survey subject to revision), something like 30-40% of the modern Georgian lexicon is obviously foreign in origin, with modern 'international' words being now the largest and most productive source of loans:By international, I mean words that might have entered Georgian through a specific source language (often Russian), but which are themselves not native to that language, and which are often literary or scientific in nature -- things like  aviacia (aviation),  aerop'ort'i (airport),  ek'onomik'uri (economic), the word  internacionaluri 'international' itself, etc. After that, the largest source in the sample was Greek, which provided not only religious and cultural terms like  ek'lesia (church) and  eteri (ether) but also very many Georgian personal names like  Erek'le (Heracles),  Tornik'e (Tornikios), and  Giorgi (George). (Sometimes of course the line between 'international words' and 'Greek/Latin words' is not always obvious, and has more to do with the context of borrowing than anything else.) Another large source of loanwords are Persian, Turkish, Arabic and Armenian words, but in these cases (due to the lack of available materials) it is not always easy to determine if a given word that is obviously not western comes from specifically one of these three languages, since many words of Middle Eastern origin were spread through all of these languages. Georgian  bai 'garden' and  angarii 'the bill, the check' certainly come ultimately from Persian, but it is not clear whether it was borrowed through an intermediary language. Words from Arabic often are borrowed like this through an intermediary source: Georgian  ekimi 'medical doctor' ultimately comes from Arabic hakim, but was probably borrowed via Turkish because of the vowel-harmony in ekimi. One last source of loanwords in Georgian is Russian, in which most Georgians are still fluent and which still influences their speech. Surprisingly few truly Russian words have entered into Georgian speech: words like  vap'she 'in general',  vsio 'complete, done',  p'rost'a 'simply' all fall into this category. I want to emphasize that no one really has done the proper research on this issue, so my estimate above is more like a guestimate. But it gives you some idea of the distribution of loans and native words.