 As it happens, I've actually been investigating the typology of suppletion recently as part of my research on what the languages of the Caucasus have in common. The definition that Justin Lo gave is good as a first approximation: stems like go and stems like went are indeed historically unrelated to each other (Old English gn and wendan respectively). But there exist many different problems with defining suppletive forms in this way, which might summarize as uncertainty, inadequacy and typology:Uncertainty: etymologies are often disputed or entirely unknown, especially in languages with few historical written materials. Even in English, a word as basic as 'bad' has a poorly understood etymological pedigree.Inadequacy: using a historical explanation of where a word comes from often leads to a spurious understanding of how the word functions in today's language. Typology: we understand the histories of too few languages to have comparable understandings of widely divergent languages.That's all pretty abstract, so to give you a concrete example, both English and German have rather irregular verb forms for 'be' that children simply have to memorize:(1) English German I am we are ich bin wir sind you are you are du bist ihr seid he is they are er ist  sie sindNow here's the problem: although from a modern point of view all of these forms in both languages are irregular and unpredictable, from a historical point of view, the forms in bold (in both English and German) go back to one Proto-Indo-European verb root *es-, while the German forms that are italicized go back to a separate root *bheu-, which is also where English gets the infinitive form be. So if we say that suppletive roots are historically unrelated, we are forced into the position of saying that the irregular English forms are not suppletive (since they go back to the same root), while the equally irregular German forms are suppletive (since they go back to different roots).  A gratuitously geeky comic about suppletionThis seeming paradox can be obviated if we decide instead to use a purely synchronic definition of suppletion: suppletive stems are phonologically maximally unlike each other. This definition presents its own problems, since likeness can be gradient: is children suppletively related to child? However, that really liberates us from forcing grammatical phenomena into our preconceived expectations of how they should behave.So to really answer the question, two languages of the Caucasus are most striking to me in terms both of how frequently they use suppletive forms, but also the relationships these suppletive forms have with each other. The first comes from Georgian, a language with at least as much suppletion as English:Table 1. Georgian suppletive forms (taken from Aronson 1990 and Hewitt 1995)Like English, Georgian often has different stems for different tenses (NB: all these forms are third person singular subject and third singular object.) What's interesting about this system is that often roots are shared not just between some tenses and not others, but also between different verbs. The only difference between 'he will be' and 'he will have it' is not the suppletive stem, but the preradical vowel. In some cases, such as 'say' and 'tell', not only are identical roots used in some tenses of two different verbs and not others, the verb forms themselves might be totally identical in some tenses and not others. This is true of the perfect forms of 'say' and 'tell', and the present forms of carry and 'take something'. But it's even more complicated when you look at the full paradigms of some of these verbs. Consider the future paradigms of 'go away' vs. 'go (about)': SG PL SG PL(2) 1 mi-val  mi-val-t da-v-i-vl-i da-v-i-vl-i-t 2 mi-x-val mi-x-val-t da-i-vl-i da-i-vl-i-t 3 mi-va mi-vl-en da-i-vl-is da-i-vl-ian 'I will go off, you etc.' 'I will go about, you etc.'Here, the root in just one form -- the third person plural of 'go off' -- is used for the entire paradigm of 'go (about)', so that one verb is regular, while another is irregular. Also, like the English example above, all of these roots, in both verbs, are historically related, even though they now are frozen in particular forms in particular parts of the paradigm. What this illustrates is irregularity is a feature of how cells in paradigms relate to each other, not features of particular roots.There is some evidence however that at least some of these suppletive roots are in fact not the same verb (sharing a paradigm) at all. An example from the chart above is the verb 'carry', which has a dative-case subject in the present tense, but a nominative case subject in the future and a narrative case subject in the aorist past tense:(3) a. Ivane-s mi-a-kv-s c'ign-i samk'itxelo-i John-DAT PVB-PRV-have.INAN-3sg carry-NOM reading.room-to 'John is carrying the book into the reading room.' b. Ivane mi-i-t'an-s c'ign-s samk'itxelo-i John.NOM PVB-PRV-carry-3sg book-DAT reading.room-to 'John will carry the book into the reading room.' c. Ivane-m mi-i-t'an-a c'ign-i samk'itxelo-i John-NAR PVB-PRV-carry-AOR3sg book-NOM reading.room-to 'John carried the book into the reading room.'In these examples, you can see that the present tense form with the weird case-array (dative subject, nominative object) is actually based on the word for 'have something inanimate', while the other two tenses actually have both different roots and different case marking (nominative subject and dative object, then narrative subject and nominative object). In fact, some speakers also have a regular paradigm for the root t'an- 'carry' in the present tense as well, so what we might have here is in fact two only partially merged verbs: one (kv-) that is defective and uses the other (t'an-) for its other tenses, and one that is fully formed (t'an-). So although Georgian case marking is totally strange if you compare it to other languages, these forms are strange even in comparison to other Georgian forms. Georgian is an exceptionally complicated language morphologically, but an even more striking example from the Caucasus is Udi, spoken in Azerbaijan and in a few villages in Georgia. In this language, it is no longer easily possible to form new verb roots. To form new verbs, instead you take a noun and then use one of thirty or so light verbs that are bleached of their meaning (much like when English speakers say 'do homework'). The nouns are incorporated into the verb, but are still morphologically distinct from them. What's interesting is that a number of these light verbs have suppletive stems in different tenses:(Udi data take from Harris' Endoclitics and the origins of Udi Morphosyntax; table mine)The implication of this is that, since new verb meanings have to be composed of light verbs, and since some light verbs have suppletive forms, new verbs in this language are indirectly systematically suppletive -- in effect, regularly irregular. This is truely fascinating, and one of the reasons I continue to study the languages of the Caucasus.