 First of all, you're overgeneralizing how often Americans think about the world outside America. Just compare the American edition of Time magazine with the versions intended for foreign consumption:(from 19 Puzzling Differences Between "Time" Magazine U.S. And International Covers)To a certain extent, this is just a reflection of the sheer size of America: it has the third largest population of any country in the fourth largest landmass with a staggering amount of wealth that sometimes amounts to sybaritic opulence (First World Problems). This combination of size, population and wealth means that America can be in some sense a world unto itself. It is thus not so much that Americans think they are so great; rather, they are just much less dependent on the rest of the world than virtually any other country, and this gives them a kind of self-confidence in the correctness and propriety of their civilization that other countries that are historically or currently more insecure do not have.But there is another reason, and this is that, in comparison to most other major countries of the world, for most of the last several centuries, so much has gone right in America. We have had our share of historical tragedies: the murder and marginalization of Native Americans, African slavery, a racial caste system that still stains our consciousness. But most other major countries have had much, much more violent histories:France had Wars of Religion in the late 16th century that killed between two and four million people. Later, their eponymous revolution killed a quarter million people, about 40 thousand of which were mechanically beheaded in the Reign of Terror in the pursuit of a rigidly idealistic ideology, but most died as a result of economic dislocation and famine. This was immediately followed by an imperial despotism (Napoleon) that killed some six million Europeans over nearly a quarter century of warfare. Later, in the 20th century, France suffered horribly in the First and Second World Wars, which between them killed nearly two million Frenchmen.  an illustration of St. Bartholomew's Day massacre (1572)Germany's early modern experience was in many ways more awful than almost any place on earth, as it was in some sense the cockpit of Europe. The Thirty Years' War killed on average 30% of its population (and in some places much much higher), and it was followed by half a dozen world wars fought partly or mainly in Germany: the War of the Spanish Succession, the War of the Austrian Succession , the Seven Years' War , the French Revolutionary Wars, the Napoleonic Wars and World Wars I and II. This last war of course also involved a totalitarian regime that pursued the historically shocking systematic murder of millions of eastern European Jews, Slavs, gypsies, mentally handicapped, homosexuals and other 'undesirables'. And, all these wars combined killed approximately 15-20 million Germans alone, not including the other countries.  Marauding Soldiers (during the Thirty Years' War)Russia during much of the early modern period managed to stay clear of most of the wars of western Europe, though its frequent wars with the Swedes and the Turks were often very bloody affairs. Starting in the mid 18th century, Russia