 This is really a huge question -- individual linguists have devoted their entire careers to examining how reflexivity works in natural languages because the subject is astonishingly complex. But because the question asks how reflexivity is 'shown', I take it that what they're looking at is how reflexivity is formally encoded across languages. There are very generally speaking two different ways: the use of a special reflexive pronoun or noun, or the use of a special suffix on the verb to indicate coreference between the subject and an object. Within the class of nominals, there are two subtypes: SE-reflexives, and SELF-reflexives (for more on which, see below). Not all languages have all types (indeed, most don't). In many languages reflexives of any type are also homophonous with reciprocals. This is especially true of many languages of North and South America as well as Australia and some parts of Africa: WALS map on reciprocals(Taken from work done by Ekkehard Koenig.)Reflexive PronounsReflexive pronouns are the most familiar to us, since they are used in not just English, but also most European languages and indeed most languages generally. Thus we see construction like the following:(1) German Der Mann hat sich im Spiegel gesehen. the.MASC.NOM man has REFL in.the mirror see.PAST.PART 'The man saw himself in the mirror.'(2) Georgian K'ac-ma tav-i sark'e-i nax-a man-NARR self-NOM mirror-in see.PF-AOR.3sg 'The man saw himself in the mirror.'(3) Telugu Kamala tana-ni tanu eppuDuu poguDu-kon-Tun-di  Kamala.NOM SELF-ACC SELF-NOM always praise-REFL-PROG-AGR Kamala always praises herself.As mentioned above, in some languages there is a contrast between a simpler SE-type reflexive and a more complex SELF-type reflexive. In general, if a language has pronominal intensifiers, it will be identical to the SELF-type reflexive, not the SE-type. Dutch is maybe the most famous example of a language with such a distinction:(4) a. Jan waste zich.  John washed SE  b. Jan waste zichzelf.  John washed SELF  Both: John washed himself. (5) a. *Jan haatte zich.  John hated SE  b. Jan haatte zichzelf  John hated SELF  John hated himself. Other languages that have a SE/SELF distinction are German, Swedish, Norwegian, Icelandic, Greek, and Georgian. Although research on such anaphors is still evolving, it appears to be the case that if a language allows long-distance anaphors, the SELF-type pronoun will be used in the most local clause, while the SE-type pronoun could be used further away from the noun it is coreferential with:(6) Jn-1 skipai Ptri a raka ??sjlfan sig-1/sig-1/hann-1  hverjum degi.  John ordered Peter to shave SELF/SE/him on every day John-1 ordered Peter to shave him-1 every day.Here, the 'him' is actually John, but in Icelandic you can use the SE-reflexive there, which in English would be ungrammatical unless you meant Peter: *"John-1 ordered Peter to shave himself-1 every day.'Verbal ReflexivesOther languages sometimes have suffixes on the verb that carry the weight of the reflexive. Russian is such a language, as you can add the clitic -sya to reflexivize the verb instead of using the reflexive pronoun:(7)    On poranil sebya He wounded himself(8)   On poranilsya He wounded-selfIn Russian this suffix is just a clitic that attaches to the very end of the verb. In other languages such as Georgian or Meskwaki (an Algonquian language spoken in Iowa) the reflexive suffix is more tightly attached to the verb:(9) Georgian: K'ac-ma da-i-nax-a sark'e-i Man-NARR PVB-REFL-see.PF-AOR.3sg mirror-in 'The man saw himself in the mirror.'(10) Meskwaki (Algonquian) a. wa:pa-tiso-w-a look.at-REFL-3-3anim 'He looked at himself' b. wa:pat-am-w-a o-wiyawi look.at-TH-3-3anim 3Poss-body 'He looked at himself.'As you can see from all of these, languages have a variety of different strategies to represent reflexivity, most of which are not mutually exclusive.Works Cited:Koenig, Ekkehard and Claire Moyse-Faurie. 'Towards a Typology of Reflexivity' Handout available online: Page on eva.mpg.deFischer, Silke. 'Pronominal anaphora' Available at: Page on ifla.uni-stuttgart.de