 The short answer is that Georgian and Ossetian belong to totally unrelated language families, use largely unrelated lexicons, and have rather dissimilar grammatical systems.One of the big problems that students of Caucasian languages face is what you might call the Orientalist Fallacy: speakers of Caucasian languages 'over there' have been living next to each other, speaking each other's languages for centuries or millennia, so they must be pretty similar, right? Georgians and Ossetians share many traits in common: marriage customs, culinary traditions, modes of dress, styles of architecture, rules of hospitality (and contrariwise, blood vendettas), and all sorts of other cultural habits, so it is very easy to assume their languages must go along for the ride. Here for example are two old pictures of men in traditional dress, both holding a gun and wearing Chokhas: a western Georgian (on the left) and an Ossetian (on the right) -- can you spot the difference?Superficially, especially from the vantage point of the Moskva River or the Seine, Georgians and Ossetians can seem to be practically identical.Phylogenetic DifferencesBut the first major problem with that view is that, linguistically, Georgian and Ossetian belong to two entirely unrelated language families: Kartvelian and Indo-European (on its Iranian branch), respectively. Although the Kartvelian languages have been situated in the Caucasus since time immemorial (at least the early Bronze Age), the Ossetians arrived there in classical antiquity as an off-shoot of an eastern subbranch of the Iranian family within Indo-European -- Ossetian is specifically most closely related to Yaghnobi, a language spoken in the Pamir Mountains of Tajikistan. They are in fact the last remnants of the ancient Scythian nomads who roamed the western and central steppe more than two thousand years ago. So despite centuries of geographic proximity, they originally come from totally different parts of Eurasia, which you can see on this map. (Here, Georgia is in the left corner, with the capital labeled 'Tiflis', near the current Ossetic speaking region, while Yagnobi is far to the east near Dushanbe.)Grammatical (In)congruitiesIn many ways, Ossetic has drifted far from its IE origins. Unlike most other IE languages but like Georgian, Ossetic has lost all grammatical genders. Ossetic has also entirely lost its original IE case paradigm system, in which suffixes combined number and case in a single affix. Ossetic has instead innovated an almost entirely new system with a discrete number suffix followed by one of nine case suffixes (again, mostly unknown in IE). Here for example is the paradigm for 'house' (with the Georgian equivalent for comparison):Ossetic Singular PluralNominative xzar xzar-tt- 'house/houses'Genitive xzar-y xzar-tt-y Dative xzar-n xzar-tt-n Allative xzar-ma xzar-tt-amAblative xzar-y xzar-tt-yInessive xzar-y xzar-tt-ySuperessive xzar-yl xzar-tt-ylEquative xzar-aw xzar-tt-aw Comitative xzar-ima xzar-tt-imaGeorgianNominative saxl-i saxl-eb-i 'house/houses'Narrative saxl-ma saxl-eb-maDative saxl-s saxl-eb-sGenitive saxl-is saxl-eb-isInstrumental saxl-it saxl-eb-itAdverbial saxl-ad saxl-eb-adVocative saxl-o saxl-eb-oAs you can see, this, too, somewhat resembles the Georgian system, in that Georgian also lost an original number+case suffix and replaced it with separate number and case suffixes. (Probably in both languages this was due to Turkic influence.) But in most respects, Georgian grammar works entirely differently:In Georgian, verbs inflect for all sorts of categories, including the person and number of subjects, direct and indirect objects, tense, aspect, mood, voice, and even the direction of movement towards the speaker (so-called ventive prefixes). Ossetic verbs in contrast form only a few tenses synthetically, the others using participles.Voice in Georgian is usually synthetic: cf. active da-c'er-a 'he wrote it' vs. passive da-i-c'er-a 'it got written'. In Ossetic, passives are usually formed analytically with a past participle plus an auxiliary that means 'go': arazin 'to build' vs. arazt tsuin 'to be built'.Georgian, like Russian, German, French and other languages, distinguishes between an unmarked en 'you (sg)' and both a plural and polite singular tkven 'y'all/you(polite)'; Ossetic does not use the plural pronoun for politeness.In Georgian, the imperative is always exactly identical to the aorist tense form; in Ossetic, there is a special dedicated imperative form.In Georgian, the subject of some intransitive verbs is marked the same way as the subject of transitive verbs, while the subject of other intransitive verbs is marked the same way as the object of transitive verbs (a so-called Activestative language); in Ossetic, the subjects of intransitive pattern like the subjects of transitives (or a Nominativeaccusative language), just as in most European languages. Georgian is sometimes described as an SOV (subject-object-verb) word-order language, but this is a great overstatement. Georgian has a slight tendency towards SOV, though really its order is discourse-configurational (meaning that word order depends on how you want to structure your discourse, not some specific rule) [1]. Other languages in the region such as Daghestanian languages and certainly Ossetic, are much more rigidly SOV-oriented.In other words, while many of the features they share in common are properties that are commonplace around the world (e.g. SOV languages often also have postpositions rather than prepositions), the kinds of unusual features that would point toward some kind of language contact between Georgian and Ossetic come back in the negative. This is even true on the vocabulary level, since a comparison of the 100 most basic words in Georgian and Ossetic (Georgian Swadesh list and Ossetian Swadesh list) shows that they share very few if any words in common -- unexpected if Ossetic and Georgian have been intensively borrowing from each other.So the bottom line is that Georgian and Ossetic are quite different from each other linguistically, both historically and in today's languages.[1] For a geekily technical discussion of Georgian word order, you can read my article published in Lingua: Nonconfigurationality and Argumenthood in Georgian.