 saxl-eb-itAdverbial saxl-ad saxl-eb-adVocative saxl-o saxl-eb-oAs you can see, this, too, somewhat resembles the Georgian system, in that Georgian also lost an original number+case suffix and replaced it with separate number and case suffixes. (Probably in both languages this was due to Turkic influence.) But in most respects, Georgian grammar works entirely differently:In Georgian, verbs inflect for all sorts of categories, including the person and number of subjects, direct and indirect objects, tense, aspect, mood, voice, and even the direction of movement towards the speaker (so-called ventive prefixes). Ossetic verbs in contrast form only a few tenses synthetically, the others using participles.Voice in Georgian is usually synthetic: cf. active da-c'er-a 'he wrote it' vs. passive da-i-c'er-a 'it got written'. In Ossetic, passives are usually formed analytically with a past participle plus an auxiliary that means 'go': arazin 'to build' vs. arazt tsuin 'to be built'.Georgian, like Russian, German, French and other languages, distinguishes between an unmarked en 'you (sg)' and both a plural and polite singular tkven 'y'all/you(polite)'; Ossetic does not use the plural pronoun for politeness.In Georgian, the imperative is always exactly identical to the aorist tense form; in Ossetic, there is a special dedicated imperative form.In Georgian, the subject of some intransitive verbs is marked the same way as the subject of transitive verbs, while the subject of other intransitive verbs is marked the same way as the object of transitive verbs (a so-called Activestative language); in Ossetic, the subjects of intransitive pattern like the subjects of transitives (or a Nominativeaccusative language), just as in most European languages. Georgian is sometimes described as an SOV (subject-object-verb) word-order language, but this is a great overstatement. Georgian has a slight tendency towards SOV, though really its order is discourse-configurational (meaning that word order depends on how you want to structure your discourse, not some specific rule) [1]. Other languages in the region such as Daghestanian languages and certainly Ossetic, are much more rigidly SOV-oriented.In other words, while many of the features they share in common are properties that are commonplace around the world (e.g. SOV languages often also have postpositions rather than prepositions), the kinds of unusual features that would point toward some kind of language contact between Georgian and Ossetic come back in the negative. This is even true on the vocabulary level, since a comparison of the 100 most basic words in Georgian and Ossetic (Georgian Swadesh list and Ossetian Swadesh list) shows that they share very few if any words in common -- unexpected if Ossetic and Georgian have been intensively borrowing from each other.So the bottom line is that Georgian and Ossetic are quite different from each other linguistically, both historically and in today's languages.[1] For a geekily technical discussion of Georgian word order, you can read my article published in Lingua: Nonconfigurationality and Argumenthood in Georgian.