 To a certain extent this idea that ergative constructions (in which the object of transitive verbs are treated the same as subjects of intransitive verbs) are somehow 'primitive' is little more than exoticizing myth: people from where we are from don't speak that way, so it's those people who are weird. Obviously, the people who actually live in Australia or the Pacific Northwest of America or the Caucasus can't be remote from themselves.Nonetheless, it is true that the distribution of ergativity is skewed toward particular parts of the world and not others. If you look at this map from the World Atlas of Language Structures, you will see that there is a typological cline from west to east in which the more westerly a language is spoken, the more likely that language is to have no evidence of ergativity: The distribution of languages with ergativity in full noun phrasesHere, you can see that the languages of western Eurasia and Africa have an almost exclusively neutral or nominative alignment in full NPs. As you proceed in an easterly direction, you get your first cluster of ergative languages in the Caucasus, then again in the Himalayas, then again quite a few across Melanesia and Australia, and again in the Pacific Northwest and the Amazon.Why would there be such a cline? The answer almost certainly has nothing to do with the level of 'advancement' of the languages. This idea, called the stadialist hypothesis, was quite popular especially in the Soviet Union in the late 20th century, and held that languages advance through several distinct stages in a unidirectional fashion:First, the most primitive languages start out as Activestative languages. Such languages are more semantically oriented, in that there is no uniform category of 'intransitive subject'; the single argument of some intransitive verbs will pattern in case, agreement, etc. like the agent of transitives (so-called active verbs), while the the single argument of other intransitive verbs will pattern like the object of transitive verbs.In the next stage, some of these languages were then believed to evolve into Ergativeabsolutive languages. In the most advanced stage, some of the ergative languages were believed to evolve into Nominativeaccusative languages.If this theory had been true, it would have been very profound, since it places strict constraints on how languages can evolve. However, as soon as it was put forth, it became immediately clear that this idea is wrong:We know enough about the history of some languages to show that alignment change is not unidirectional. For example, we know that Sanskrit is the ancestor of Hindi, and contrary to the theory, Sanskrit with an accusative alignment evolved into Hindi with a split-ergative alignment. This cannot be doubted, since we have actual texts of the language at most all stages of its evolution. A less certain example is Georgian: Proto-Kartvelian has been reconstructed with an ergative alignment, but modern Georgian has a active-stative alignment, also contrary to the stadialist hypothesis.A bigger problem is that we have reason to believe that human languages have been spoken for something like a quarter million to half a million years (see my answer When did language originate?). If the stadialist hypothesis were true, then all languages would have reached their end state as accusative languages by the time of the first attested languages unless language change itself sped up furiously only in the last 5000 years. We would in other words expect there to be no ergative or active languages at all if language had been evolving at a steady pace over the last quarter million years.Thus the idea that some particular alignment systems of language are more 'primitive' than others is flawed; alignment systems of all types can show up everywhere in any society.