 Most of the other answers give one possible form of disagreement: when the features of the verb and the features of the subject fail to match in some recognized way. However, I'm going to argue here that this kind of disagreement is just a subtype of a more general phenomenon, and it sheds light on what agreement is doing in the first place.What is Agreement, anyway?First we have to unpack this rather complicated idea. Usually when you say that a verb agrees with the subject, you're saying that the form of the verb changes in response to some feature of the argument, such as person and number:The boy runs.In this sentence, the verb has a suffix -s that refers back to the argument of the sentence: boy. However, if we look at a wider paradigm, we see that this is the only instance when the verb 'responds' to the properties of the noun: I run we run you run y'all run the boy runs the boys runIn all other cases, the form of the verb is not changing in response to the properties of the noun. So are the other five forms agreeing with the noun, or not? On at least one reading, the morphological one, they are not agreeing with it, since they show no evidence of changing their form in accord with their argument. It is only when we look at the paradigm as a whole that the question of agreement even comes up: one form demands a certain affix, and the others do not. Controllers, Targets and ConditionsThe simple English example shows that agreement is a matter of specific grammatical contexts (controllers) triggering specific responses in the agreement targets. In some languages, the effect a controller has on its agreement target is absolute: if a subject noun is plural, the verb will agree with the noun in number [1]. Typical European languages act this way: just think of German, Latin or Russian. However, in some languages, additional conditions have to be met before an agreement controller will actually trigger agreement in its target. In the Georgian language, for example, only animate or motile nouns can trigger plural agreement; if the noun is not animate and cannot move on its own, then it triggers only singular agreement on the verb, while still being marked overtly as plural on the noun:Animate nouns: (1) k'ac-eb-i dga-nan (*dga-s) ezo-i man-PL-NOM stand-3PL (*stand-3sg) courtyard-in 'The men are standing in the courtyard.'(2) it'-eb-i gada-prin-av-en (*gada-prin-av-s) bird-PL-NOM PVB-fly-TH-3PL (*PVB-fly-TH-3sg) 'The birds are flying away.'Motile nouns:(3) mankan-eb-i dga-nan (*dga-s) gara-i car-PL-NOM stand-3pl (*stand-3sg) garage-in 'The cars are standing in the garage.'(4) nav-eb-i t'ivt'iv-eb-en (*t'ivt'iv-eb-s) zva-ze boat-PL-NOM float-TH-3pl (float-TH-3sg) sea-on 'The boats are floating on the sea.'Inanimate/nonmotile nouns:(5) mt-eb-i ar-is / (*ar-ian) lamaz-i mountain-PL-NOM be-3sg (*be-3pl) beautiful-NOM 'The mountains are beautiful.'(6) ku-eb-i ar-is / (*ar-ian) uvnebel-i ame-s street-PL-NOM be-3sg (*be-3pl) safe-NOM night-DAT 'The streets are safe at night.'As you can see, Georgian is quite different from English, because although like English it does have overt morphology to indicate third person agreement, in some cases it fails to use it when you would expect it to. There is another class of exception: overtly quantified noun phrases. If even an animate noun phrase is quantified with a numeral or some kind of quantifier, then both the noun and the verb must be marked in the singular:(7) sam-i k'ac-i dga-s (*dga-nan) ezo-i three-NOM man-NOM stand-3sg (*stand-3pl) courtyard-in 'Three men are standing in the courtyard.'Crucially, these exceptions constitute natural semantic and syntactic classes, so the subject-verb disagreement falls along predictable lines. What such examples illustrate is that the system of subject-verb agreement depends on specific facts in specific languages, and those facts can vary considerably from language to language; in some languages, subject-verb disagreement is not only allowed, it is obligatory in certain contexts.[1] In point of fact, agreement with the subject could be considered a kind of condition, but I will ignore that for purposes of this discussion.