 First of all, you're overgeneralizing how often Americans think about the world outside America. Just compare the American edition of Time magazine with the versions intended for foreign consumption:(from 19 Puzzling Differences Between "Time" Magazine U.S. And International Covers)To a certain extent, this is just a reflection of the sheer size of America: it has the third largest population of any country in the fourth largest landmass with a staggering amount of wealth that sometimes amounts to sybaritic opulence (First World Problems). This combination of size, population and wealth means that America can be in some sense a world unto itself. It is thus not so much that Americans think they are so great; rather, they are just much less dependent on the rest of the world than virtually any other country, and this gives them a kind of self-confidence in the correctness and propriety of their civilization that other countries that are historically or currently more insecure do not have.But there is another reason, and this is that, in comparison to most other major countries of the world, for most of the last several centuries, so much has gone right in America. We have had our share of historical tragedies: the murder and marginalization of Native Americans, African slavery, a racial caste system that still stains our consciousness. But most other major countries have had much, much more violent histories:France had Wars of Religion in the late 16th century that killed between two and four million people. Later, their eponymous revolution killed a quarter million people, about 40 thousand of which were mechanically beheaded in the Reign of Terror in the pursuit of a rigidly idealistic ideology, but most died as a result of economic dislocation and famine. This was immediately followed by an imperial despotism (Napoleon) that killed some six million Europeans over nearly a quarter century of warfare. Later, in the 20th century, France suffered horribly in the First and Second World Wars, which between them killed nearly two million Frenchmen.  an illustration of St. Bartholomew's Day massacre (1572)Germany's early modern experience was in many ways more awful than almost any place on earth, as it was in some sense the cockpit of Europe. The Thirty Years' War killed on average 30% of its population (and in some places much much higher), and it was followed by half a dozen world wars fought partly or mainly in Germany: the War of the Spanish Succession, the War of the Austrian Succession , the Seven Years' War , the French Revolutionary Wars, the Napoleonic Wars and World Wars I and II. This last war of course also involved a totalitarian regime that pursued the historically shocking systematic murder of millions of eastern European Jews, Slavs, gypsies, mentally handicapped, homosexuals and other 'undesirables'. And, all these wars combined killed approximately 15-20 million Germans alone, not including the other countries.  Marauding Soldiers (during the Thirty Years' War)Russia during much of the early modern period managed to stay clear of most of the wars of western Europe, though its frequent wars with the Swedes and the Turks were often very bloody affairs. Starting in the mid 18th century, Russia increasingly became involved in European affairs, especially during the Great Northern War, the War of the Polish Succession, the War of the Austrian Succession, the Seven Years' War, the Napoleonic Wars, various 19th century wars in Central Asia during its imperial expansion, and of course the First and Second World Wars. The first of these killed so many people -- at least 3 million -- that the Empire collapsed into civil war and revolution, which killed a further 5-9 million people. After the Communists secured power, they pursued policies in the Ukraine during collectivization that killed at least 3 and as many as 8 million people, mostly from a government-sponsored famine (Holodomor). Then, as Joseph Stalin gained ever more power, he engaged in a series of ever bloodier purges that killed some 700 thousand people during the Great Purge alone. Then, right when the Soviet Union was weak and disorganized because of the purges, Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, and Russia's entry into the Second World War left some 25-30 million people dead.  Stalin and Yezhov, before the Purge  Stalin, with Yezhov 'erased' after the PurgeIn China, the collapse of the Ming Dynasty in the mid 17th century has sometimes been characterized as the 'Ming-Qing Cataclysm', since over a half century of warfare an estimated 20 million people died. Two centuries later, the Taiping Rebellion killed another 20-25 million people, and immediately after this came to an end, the Dungan Revolt flared up, which killed another 8-12 million people. China managed to avoid the worst in the First World War, but as the Chinese Republic descended into anarchy and warlordism, civil war broke out between the Republican forces and the Communists. Between 1928 and 1949, an estimated 8 million people died as a result of just the civil war. This is of course not to mention the 15-20 million additional people who died during the Second World War fighting the Japanese (during which the Communists and Republicans called a truce). After the Communists secured victory, they instituted policies that lead to the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution, which between them killed a staggering 45-60 million people (mostly from famine, though at least one million landlords were executed during the Cultural Revolution).  a scene during the Taiping RebellionSo you can see from this sad litany of historical tragedies and human suffering that America's history stands in a wider global context. In that context, the bloodiest war in America's history, the Civil War, killed a comparatively small 700 thousand people. Because Americans have lead relatively peaceful lives over the last 400 years, they were able to engage in, as Thomas Jefferson put it, 'the pursuit of happiness', and institute governments structured around the rule of law and, increasingly, democracy that now the world over are considered the hallmarks of a civilized society. This combination of peace, prosperity and freedom has for many centuries been attractive to people around the world. And Americans know this, because these people have voted with their feet.So you see, it is not that Americans think we are so great. Rather it is that we know that our history could have been so much worse.