 So many misconceptions in this question.First, Armenians do not descend from a man named Hayk -- this is an example of the eponymous founder fallacy. This fallacy takes the following form: you have a name, and you don't know where it comes from. So (usually following some kooky Biblical narrative or Greek myth) you simply assert that the name of the country comes from a single man. This was a very common fallacy in etymology in ancient times: it is found repeatedly in the Bible (Israel being the name of a man), Rome (Romulus is transparently the name of the city 'Roma' with a diminutive suffix -ul-), the Armenians from Hayk (Hay- is the Armenian word for Armenian plus a suffix -k) [1], Georgia (the region of Kartli was attributed in the Middle Ages to a man named Kartlos, obviously a Hellenized version of Kartli), and so forth. No one has taken these kinds of explanations seriously for literally hundreds of years, so it's kinda crazy to be reading them on Quora.Second, it is only sort-of true that Armenians are autochthonous to the land they now inhabit (in the sense that they've been there since records began). As I discussed in another answer (Is it true that Armenians invented wine?), here is the true story behind the Armenians:The Armenians are demonstrably an Indo-European people who speak an Indo-European language. They are on their own branch, but they are still obviously related to Greek, German, Latin, Sanskrit, etc.Written historical records of the land that is now Armenia and eastern Turkey goes back thousands of years to almost the beginning of writing. These inscriptions demonstrate conclusively that the earliest inhabitants of eastern Anatolia for whom records exist were not Armenians, but non-Indo-European peoples called the Hurrians and Urarteans (specifically the latter, though the groups were adjacent).After the end of the Bronze Age, when civilizations across the ancient Near East were collapsing, groups of Indo-European tribes from the Balkans began to migrate into Anatolia, including the Phrygians and Armenians. These groups conquered or replaced earlier groups including both Indo-European groups like the Hittites as well as non-Indo-European groups like the Hurrians, Urarteans, Hattites, etc.This process probably began around 1200 BC, with the Phrygians settling in central Anatolia near modern Ankara, while the closely related Armenians kept moving further east and south, where they occupied Urartean cities like Yerevan (whose Urartean name was Erebuni) finally only around 600 BC or so. (An image of Erebuni Fortress, now a suburb of modern Yerevan)The Armenians replaced the Urarteans, though we know few details about how. Obviously there was some language contact: a few names stayed on like Urartu, an alternate form of Mt. Ararat. The Armenians also adopted a few dozen words from Urartean. Over the centuries, the territories controlled by ethnic Armenians have waxed and waned -- the map in the question is certainly misleading, since it includes only territories controlled by Armenians at the height of their power under King Tigranes the Great. For most of their history, Armenians have either been variously independent kingdoms, disunited principalities, weak vassals of greater powers or they were outright annexed by those powers (Assyria, the Cimmerians, Phrygia, Media, Persia, Macedon, Rome, Byzantium, the Arabs, the Turks), with no real kingdom or state of their own.BUT, and this is the important point, although they are not truly autochthonous (like say the Georgians to their north) the Armenians have been in Anatolia for over 3000 years, for so long that they are certainly now indigenous to eastern Anatolia and Armenia.As for whether the Armenians peacefully entered Anatolia in 1200 BC, we really have no idea. There is no historical documentation of the Armenians for centuries after their likely entry into the peninsula, just archaeological evidence, and a burn layer does not tell you who burned a city down. Certainly they could have conquered and killed off the previous inhabitants, but we have no evidence of that.In any event, a larger point of course is that whatever the sins of the fathers (= late Bronze Age wandering tribes) might be, that does not justify punishing the sons (early 20th century ethnic Armenians). The crimes committed against the Armenians in 1915, earlier and later, as well as any contemporary land claims ought to be treated separately from whatever ancient history the land might have.[1] Actually the name Hayk may be related to an ethnonym mentioned in Hittite texts: the Hayasa-Azzi. However it is difficult to know if this is their original name, a phonological accident (similar sounding names happen all the time in unrelated languages) or the adoption by Armenians of the name of the land used by the previous inhabitants. An analogy of this last scenario would be Britain, whose inhabitants now mostly speak a Germanic language, English, but whose original inhabitants as far as anyone can tell were Celtic speaking in the earliest attested records. The name was simply adopted by the invaders for themselves, even though they had nothing to do with the original inhabitants. Something like this definitely did happen to the Hittites: they called themselves Nesites, but the previous occupants of the land were Hattites, and the Hittites' kingdom of Hatti was named after them.