 English is pretty tame when it comes to morphology. The oddest exceptions in forming plurals are hyperliterate Greco-Latin foreign loan words like octopodes [1], rhinocerotes, and chrysalides, all of which have alternative (nonpretensious) Anglo-Saxon plurals. However, even these forms are actually not all that uncommon, since at least half the languages of the world indicate nominal plurals by suffixation: WALS map indicating pluralization strategies around the worldSome constructions that seem odd to speakers of European languages -- such as a separate word to indicate plurality -- are in fact not so rare either. Some constructions however are truly unusual, such as systematically using tone to indicate noun plurals, which is found in the Sudanic language Ngiti:(1) Ngiti: kam chief  km chiefs mlyik angel mlyk angels mlim teacher mlm teachers addu my brother addu my brothersIn this language, a low tone on kam indicates a single chief, but if you raise the tone to a high tone, you get km 'chiefs'. Only two languages in WALS's survey of almost a thousand languages formed plurals in this way. Only slightly less rare is internal stem change, which is found in Maricopa, a language of California:(2) Maricopa: humar child  humaar children nchen older sibling nchiin older siblings hat dog haat dogs mhay boy mhaa boysAlthough both of these strategies are rare, they don't really strike you as 'strange' in the sense of counterintuitive. They are rather unusual simply because they are systematic, not because the processes themselves are odd. Even some of the counterintuitive systems, like French and Sinhala disfixation, which subtract parts of the stem to form a plural, are not really so rare either.Maybe a better way to think about exotica in pluralization is not the formation of plurals, but the target of plurals -- which words get pluralized. In this sense, the oddest plural I've ever come across is surely the Kiowa inverse number system. In this language, nouns are marked for what number they are not, rather than for what number they are. In the four noun classes of the language, some are inherently singular or dual (Class I), others are inherently dual or plural (class II), others are inherently dual (Class III), and yet others are mass nouns and never pluralize. What's odd about this system is that if you add an inverse suffix -gau [2] to class one, you get a plural, but if you add the very same suffix to class two, you get a singular:So for example, a class I word like c 'horse, two horses' becomes cgau 'three or more horses', while a class II word like ths 'two or more bones' becomes thsgau 'one bone'. A class III word like l 'two apples' likewise has an inverse form lb 'one or three or more apples (but not two apples)'. A system like this one is really exceptionally rare, a true rarissimum of linguistic typology.[1] Octopus comes from Greek: okto 'eight' and pous 'foot'. Since the plural of pous is podes, the correct plural is octopodes. Octopi comes from mistaking the -us ending as a Latin second declension masculine noun, which it is not. [2] Actually one among many inverse suffixes.Works Cited:Dryer, Matthew S. 2005. "33. Coding of Nominal Plurality." WALS.Mithun, M. 2001. The languages of native North America. Cambridge University Press.