 The short answer is that probably all natural languages distinguish words that are 'nouny' from words that are 'verby', but in some languages the contrast is very unclear. To understand this though, you need to understand what a part of speech is. A 'part of speech' is a traditional phrase that refers to a distribution class: if you have a string of words, only some words can be replaced with other words without creating an ungrammatical string. For example in "John ran into the X", "X" can be replaced with "house", "woods", "river" etc. but not "sing", "cogitate", "impress", because the former but not the latter are syntactically nouns which can be the head of a noun phrase. In most languages, the distinction between nouns and verbs is not only fairly straightforward syntactically like this, they are also morphologically distinct: a noun will inflect with a completely different class of affixes than a verb would.I say some, because even very familiar languages do not have an absolutely watertight contrast between nouns and verbs. English, for example, allows null-conversion (i.e. change of part of speech without overt affixation) surprisingly freely:Even in English, such cases can usually be explained by mere homophony, since these cases are the exception rather than the rule. Other languages are far less clear however. English divides nouns, verbs and adjectives into fairly clear classes, but very many languages treat all adjectives as either nouns or verbs syntactically. For example in Mohawk, all adjectives inflect for person, number, tense and gender just like regular verbs:(1) a. ka-hutsi (Baker 1996) NsS-black 'It is black' b. t-a'-ka-ya't-v'-ne' CIS-FACT-NsS-body-fall-PUNC 'It fell' In this language, using an inflected verb is the only way to indicate that something is black -- there is no independent class of adjectives. This much is very common around the world, but Mohawk goes even further, since it also appears to be able to use fully inflected finite verbs as if they were nouns:(2) Akaterohrkha kken teiiaks a-k-ate-rohrok-ha- kik te-yo-yak-s OPT-1AGT-MID-watch-DIS-PRF this DUP-NEUT.PAT-cut-IMPF "I would go watch this movie." (lit. "I would watch this it-flickers") (Mithun 1999: 59)Other languages collapse the contrast between adjectives and nouns or verbs in other ways. Georgian does not clearly distinguish adjectives from nouns in the sense that a nominal usually used to modify another nominal ('adjective') can stand in as the head noun itself:  lurji 'blue' can be either an adjective or just mean 'the blue (thing/one)'. Georgian also has many nouns that are based on participles of different types, either currently or in the past:(3) a.  c'erili 'letter'  < c'er-il-i write-PART-NOM (lit. 'the written thing') b.  damlagebeli 'cleaning lady, housekeeper' < da-m-lag-eb-el-i PVB-PART-clean-TH-PART-NOM (lit. 'the cleaning one') c.  pexsacmeli 'shoe' < pex-sa-c-m-el-i foot-FUT.PART-wear-TH-PART-NOM) (lit. 'for wearing on the foot') d.  sac'oli 'bed' < sa-c'ol-i FUT.PART-lie-NOM (lit. 'for lying down')Although these are synchronically nouns, and so are all marked with a case suffix, they originate as participles which are sometimes considered verbal in nature (depending on one's theory of syntax and morphology) -- they are certainly 'mixed categories' in some sense. Some scholars have gone further however in arguing that some languages have absolute syntactic underspecification -- all lexical roots can function as all parts of speech, depending on context. David Gil has argued that Riau Indonesian is one such language. Take for example samples from his corpus:(4) a. A noun functioning as the predicate of the clause: Orang bahasa Inggeris sama David?  person language English with David  "Did people (speak) English with (you) David?" b. A verb phrase functioning as an argument of the predicate  Tunggu taxi susa sekali  wait taxi difficult very  "Waiting for a taxi is very difficult." c. A verb functioning as a modifier  Beli nasi goreng aku  buy rice fry 1:SG  "I bought the fried rice." (Page on und.edu)Such cases are controversial, because they call into question some of the most fundamental tenets of 20th century linguistic theorizing about grammatical universals. It will probably be a long time before we have enough data from enough languages to make a definitive statement about whether nouns and verbs are truly universal categories in all languages -- or not.