 It turns out that many features of Indo-European languages of Europe, including English, are quite unusual in comparison to human languages generally -- but other IE languages are so normal that it's difficult to compare them. A few years back the Dutch linguist Michael Cysouw used the features described in the World Atlas of Language Structures to create a rarity index of the world's languages. The rarity index was mathematically formulated (see Cysouw's paper for more details [1]); if the mean rarity index of all languages found in WALS is 1.0, then languages with rarity indices of 2.0 or 3.0 are unusual, and languages with 8.0 or 10.0 are bizarre. Languages not only had absolute rarity indices, but relative ones as well in order to identify geographic clusters of languages with relatively large numbers of unusual features, resulting in this map:In this map, the darker the dot, the more that language is surrounded by languages which also have high rarity indices. What do we find? We find that most Indo-European languages from Europe have high numbers of rare features, comparable to northern Australia, the Pacific Northwest of North America and the Bolivian Amazon. What are those features, according to Cysouw? He enumerates 10:Some of these features are merely blips and are found in different branches of Indo-European; some however are highly exotic, ranging to the bizarre. For example, the idea of rearranging your word order to form questions from statements (a feature of English and most Germanic languages) is exceedingly rare -- out of 955 languages in the sample, most (585) languages use a question particle, and almost all the rest use special affixes on the verb (164) or special question intonation (173). Only 13 languages -- mostly European ones -- change the word order to indicate questions. That puts English, German and Dutch in the 1% of language weirdness, for that feature. [2]Although at one geographical end of the family there are some really quite weird languages all clustered together, at the other geographical extent we find quite the opposite, languages with rarity indices lower than 1.0. Most of these languages are Indo-Aryan languages of India. Cysouw doesn't go into much detail about typological mundanity (he's writing about rarity after all) but his work does point to an important conclusion with respect to the OP's question: with respect to language typology, Indo-European does not really function as a single cluster of traits, so there really aren't traits common to all (or even most) that are not also shared by some languages elsewhere.[1] At: http://www.cysouw.de/home/articles_files/cysouwRARA.pdf[2] For more details on these features, you can read WALS chapters online at WALS Online - Chapters.