 Answering this question is not easy for a variety of reasons. First, Georgians have a bad habit of essentializing words in their language as 'Georgian' (or: Kartvelian) or not, as if a word that has been used for a thousand years is not sufficiently Georgian enough to count as part of modern Georgian usage. This is true even of Georgian intellectuals and academics, who are educated enough to know better.Second, as Irakli Kavtaradze mentioned, in part because of the first problem, there is no one etymological dictionary of all words that Georgians actually use. There are only two major works:Klimov's Etymological Dictionary of the Kartvelian Languages, which is an excellent source for any Kartvelologist working with old texts or investigating how Georgian relates to Megrelian, Laz or Svan. This dictionary also makes some attempt at noting possible early loans words from Indo-European, Semitic, Caucasian and other languages.Fhnrich's Kartwelisches Etymologisches Wrterbuch, which covers much of the same ground as Klimov's, without however taking much note of any loanwords.In both cases, the vast majority of words that have been borrowed in the last 1000 years or so (and essentially all the huge numbers of words borrowed in the last 200) are not listed because they are not relevant for reconstructing Proto-Kartvelian, which started to split apart more than 3000 years ago. Third, there is a genuine problem of defining what a word is. Georgian and other Kartvelian languages are polysynthetic, in the sense that words often have six or more affixes (with a maximum of 12) for all kinds of categories: person, number, tense, aspect, mood, evidentiality, voice, etc. What in English might be several words in Georgian often becomes one word, because Georgian has so much morphology to build new words. Thus, even a word that clearly is borrowed like  varjii 'exercise' often gets Kartvelian morphology attached to it (e.g.  varjiobs 'he exercises') , thus blurring the line between a loan-word and native word. Lastly, there is the issue of an 'expiration date' for how long a loanword continues to be considered a loanword. For example,  k'ak'abi 'partridge' was probably borrowed from Hittite or some Anatolian Indo-European language into Proto-Kartvelian, or possibly somewhat later, more than 3000 years ago. Does this still count as a loanword, since we know its source? What about the more recent  bat'oni 'master, mister, lord', which ultimately goes back to Latin patronus 'master, lord, patron', but is now the common everyday courtesy title for adult men? There is no obvious point when a loanword