 Answering this question is not easy for a variety of reasons. First, Georgians have a bad habit of essentializing words in their language as 'Georgian' (or: Kartvelian) or not, as if a word that has been used for a thousand years is not sufficiently Georgian enough to count as part of modern Georgian usage. This is true even of Georgian intellectuals and academics, who are educated enough to know better.Second, as Irakli Kavtaradze mentioned, in part because of the first problem, there is no one etymological dictionary of all words that Georgians actually use. There are only two major works:Klimov's Etymological Dictionary of the Kartvelian Languages, which is an excellent source for any Kartvelologist working with old texts or investigating how Georgian relates to Megrelian, Laz or Svan. This dictionary also makes some attempt at noting possible early loans words from Indo-European, Semitic, Caucasian and other languages.Fhnrich's Kartwelisches Etymologisches Wrterbuch, which covers much of the same ground as Klimov's, without however taking much note of any loanwords.In both cases, the vast majority of words that have been borrowed in the last 1000 years or so (and essentially all the huge numbers of words borrowed in the last 200) are not listed because they are not relevant for reconstructing Proto-Kartvelian, which started to split apart more than 3000 years ago. Third, there is a genuine problem of defining what a word is. Georgian and other Kartvelian languages are polysynthetic, in the sense that words often have six or more affixes (with a maximum of 12) for all kinds of categories: person, number, tense, aspect, mood, evidentiality, voice, etc. What in English might be several words in Georgian often becomes one word, because Georgian has so much morphology to build new words. Thus, even a word that clearly is borrowed like  varjii 'exercise' often gets Kartvelian morphology attached to it (e.g.  varjiobs 'he exercises') , thus blurring the line between a loan-word and native word. Lastly, there is the issue of an 'expiration date' for how long a loanword continues to be considered a loanword. For example,  k'ak'abi 'partridge' was probably borrowed from Hittite or some Anatolian Indo-European language into Proto-Kartvelian, or possibly somewhat later, more than 3000 years ago. Does this still count as a loanword, since we know its source? What about the more recent  bat'oni 'master, mister, lord', which ultimately goes back to Latin patronus 'master, lord, patron', but is now the common everyday courtesy title for adult men? There is no obvious point when a loanword becomes a Georgian word -- except that words that Georgians use, are Georgian. However, to give you some sort of straightforward answer, I went through Aronson's dictionary of Georgian lexemes used in his chrestomathy to get an idea of how frequent loanwords are in actual modern texts. Based on that (very superficial survey subject to revision), something like 30-40% of the modern Georgian lexicon is obviously foreign in origin, with modern 'international' words being now the largest and most productive source of loans:By international, I mean words that might have entered Georgian through a specific source language (often Russian), but which are themselves not native to that language, and which are often literary or scientific in nature -- things like  aviacia (aviation),  aerop'ort'i (airport),  ek'onomik'uri (economic), the word  internacionaluri 'international' itself, etc. After that, the largest source in the sample was Greek, which provided not only religious and cultural terms like  ek'lesia (church) and  eteri (ether) but also very many Georgian personal names like  Erek'le (Heracles),  Tornik'e (Tornikios), and  Giorgi (George). (Sometimes of course the line between 'international words' and 'Greek/Latin words' is not always obvious, and has more to do with the context of borrowing than anything else.) Another large source of loanwords are Persian, Turkish, Arabic and Armenian words, but in these cases (due to the lack of available materials) it is not always easy to determine if a given word that is obviously not western comes from specifically one of these three languages, since many words of Middle Eastern origin were spread through all of these languages. Georgian  bai 'garden' and  angarii 'the bill, the check' certainly come ultimately from Persian, but it is not clear whether it was borrowed through an intermediary language. Words from Arabic often are borrowed like this through an intermediary source: Georgian  ekimi 'medical doctor' ultimately comes from Arabic hakim, but was probably borrowed via Turkish because of the vowel-harmony in ekimi. One last source of loanwords in Georgian is Russian, in which most Georgians are still fluent and which still influences their speech. Surprisingly few truly Russian words have entered into Georgian speech: words like  vap'she 'in general',  vsio 'complete, done',  p'rost'a 'simply' all fall into this category. I want to emphasize that no one really has done the proper research on this issue, so my estimate above is more like a guestimate. But it gives you some idea of the distribution of loans and native words.