 So many misconceptions in this question.First, Armenians do not descend from a man named Hayk -- this is an example of the eponymous founder fallacy. This fallacy takes the following form: you have a name, and you don't know where it comes from. So (usually following some kooky Biblical narrative or Greek myth) you simply assert that the name of the country comes from a single man. This was a very common fallacy in etymology in ancient times: it is found repeatedly in the Bible (Israel being the name of a man), Rome (Romulus is transparently the name of the city 'Roma' with a diminutive suffix -ul-), the Armenians from Hayk (Hay- is the Armenian word for Armenian plus a suffix -k) [1], Georgia (the region of Kartli was attributed in the Middle Ages to a man named Kartlos, obviously a Hellenized version of Kartli), and so forth. No one has taken these kinds of explanations seriously for literally hundreds of years, so it's kinda crazy to be reading them on Quora.Second, it is only sort-of true that Armenians are autochthonous to the land they now inhabit (in the sense that they've been there since records began). As I discussed in another answer (Is it true that Armenians invented wine?), here is the true story behind the Armenians:The Armenians are demonstrably an Indo-European people who speak an Indo-European language. They are on their own branch, but they are still obviously related to Greek, German, Latin, Sanskrit, etc.Written historical records of the land that is now Armenia and eastern Turkey goes back thousands of years to almost the beginning of writing. These inscriptions demonstrate conclusively that the earliest inhabitants of eastern Anatolia for whom records exist were not Armenians, but non-Indo-European peoples called the Hurrians and Urarteans (specifically the latter, though the groups were adjacent).After the end of the Bronze Age, when civilizations across the ancient Near East were collapsing, groups of Indo-European tribes from the Balkans began to migrate into Anatolia, including the Phrygians and Armenians. These groups conquered or replaced earlier groups including both Indo-European groups like the Hittites as well as non-Indo-European groups like the Hurrians, Urarteans, Hattites, etc.This process probably began around 1200 BC, with the Phrygians settling in central Anatolia near modern Ankara, while the closely related Armenians kept moving further east and south, where they occupied Urartean cities like Yerevan (whose Urartean name was Erebuni) finally only around 600 BC or so. (An image of Erebuni Fortress, now a suburb of modern Yerevan)The Armenians replaced the Urarteans, though we know few details about how. Obviously there