 Without knowing anything about the biology and anatomy of the creatures who would speak such an alien language, it is really impossible to say anything specifically. Necessary and Unnecessary PropertiesHowever, there are a few types of things that we could say more generally about what is necessary in any language. These boil down to two things:a recombinant symbolic system to represent semantic content, andsome method of conveyance of that information to other 'speakers'All known human languages have a number of other features not found in other animal communications systems (see my previous answer to Is there anything that linguists have found that is in all languages?), but an alien species on another planet could easily lack one or more of these properties:An alien language might well not use a vocal-auditory system to propagate its message, but rather use emission of light or chemical trails.An alien language that does not use sound might also lack transitoriness, since a chemical trail might be (more or less) permanent.An alien language might be hard-coded into their DNA (or whatever similar genetic analogue), and so lack traditional transmission in the form of learned culture. The implication of this is that the language of an entire species would change very, very slowly -- only as quickly as genetic drift or natural selection would allow. It would also mean that members of this species could not hope to understand variant forms of the language (dialects or other languages) spoken by genetically distant members of their species.An alien language that lacked specialization would only be used in contexts when other cultural acts are done -- there would be no such thing as small-talk.But who's really the alien?And so on. Maybe another way about thinking about this question though is to ask what human languages are already, in the light of linguistic typology, the most strange. Fortunately, this has already been done for us: The weirdest languages. If we abandon our anglocentric bias, it turns out that a number of languages of Europe are listed in the top 25 strangest languages of the world, in comparison to crosslinguistic trends of languages as a whole: The Top 25 Weirdest LanguagesBasically what these people did here was analyze which features were most frequent in the languages of the world -- e.g. SOV word order, or using a question particle to form questions -- and inverted the scale to identify languages with the largest number of infrequent properties. They then assigned languages a weirdness index based on these properties. The top ten weird languages are:Thus a language as familiar as German is actually quite strange, e.g. it has different basic word orders in matrix and subordinate clauses, and uses two different systems of case declension for definite and indefinite noun phrases. English is only a little bit less weird, as it ranks as the 33rd weirdest language in the sample. As Tyler Schnoebelen explains, Part of this is to say that some of the languages you take for granted as being normal (like English, Spanish, or German) consistently do things differently than most of the other languages in the world. It reminds me of one of the basic questions in psychology: to what extent can we generalize from research studies based on university students who are, as Joseph Henrich and his colleagues argue, Western Educated Industrialized Rich and Democratic. In other words: sometimes the input is WEIRD and you need to ask yourself how that changes things.In other words, it is quite possible that you are the alien when it comes to linguistic weirdness.