 As it happens, I've actually been investigating the typology of suppletion recently as part of my research on what the languages of the Caucasus have in common. The definition that Justin Lo gave is good as a first approximation: stems like go and stems like went are indeed historically unrelated to each other (Old English gn and wendan respectively). But there exist many different problems with defining suppletive forms in this way, which might summarize as uncertainty, inadequacy and typology:Uncertainty: etymologies are often disputed or entirely unknown, especially in languages with few historical written materials. Even in English, a word as basic as 'bad' has a poorly understood etymological pedigree.Inadequacy: using a historical explanation of where a word comes from often leads to a spurious understanding of how the word functions in today's language. Typology: we understand the histories of too few languages to have comparable understandings of widely divergent languages.That's all pretty abstract, so to give you a concrete example, both English and German have rather irregular verb forms for 'be' that children simply have to memorize:(1) English German I am we are ich bin wir sind you are you are du bist ihr seid he is they are er ist  sie sindNow here's the problem: although from a modern point of view all of these forms in both languages are irregular and unpredictable, from a historical point of view, the forms in bold (in both English and German) go back to one Proto-Indo-European verb root *es-, while the German forms that are italicized go back to a separate root *bheu-, which is also where English gets the infinitive form be. So if we say that suppletive roots are historically unrelated, we are forced into the position of saying that the irregular English forms are not suppletive (since they go back to the same root), while the equally irregular German forms are suppletive (since they go back to different roots).  A gratuitously geeky comic about suppletionThis seeming paradox can be obviated if we decide instead to use a purely synchronic definition of suppletion: suppletive stems are phonologically maximally unlike each other. This definition presents its own problems, since likeness can be gradient: is children suppletively related to child? However, that really liberates us from forcing grammatical phenomena into our preconceived expectations of how they should behave.So to really answer the question, two languages of the Caucasus are most striking to me in terms both of how frequently they use suppletive forms, but also the relationships these suppletive forms have with each other. The first comes from Georgian, a language with at least as much suppletion as English:Table 1. Georgian suppletive forms (taken from Aronson 1990 and Hewitt 1995)Like English, Georgian often has different stems for different tenses (NB: all these forms are third person singular subject and third singular object.) What's interesting about this system is that often roots are shared not just between some tenses and not others, but also between different verbs. The only difference between 'he will be' and 'he will have it' is not the suppletive stem, but the preradical vowel. In some cases, such as 'say' and 'tell', not only are identical roots used in some tenses of two different verbs and not others, the verb forms themselves might be totally identical in some tenses and not others. This is true of the perfect forms of 'say' and 'tell', and the present forms of carry