 It's not clear which history is 'our' history, but surely the most absurd war ever fought in anyone's history was the Great Emu War, waged between 2 Nov and 10 Dec in 1932 in Western Australia. Whether or not you call this a true 'war' is a matter of opinion, I suppose, as it ranged the forces of the Royal Australian Artillery, armed with machine guns, against, well, actual emus that were running amok in Western Australia. The 'war' came about because approximately 20,000 emus had migrated into marginal lands that had recently been occupied by WWI veterans. The emus were destroying crops and infrastructure through wide sections of the territory, and so the farmers called in the authorities to round up the birds who were clearly becoming a nuisance. Unfortunately, the idea of culling the animals proved more difficult than it first had appeared. As one ornithologist mentioned about the events:The machine-gunners' dreams of point blank fire into serried masses of Emus were soon dissipated. The Emu command had evidently ordered guerrilla tactics, and its unwieldy army soon split up into innumerable small units that made use of the military equipment uneconomic. A crestfallen field force therefore withdrew from the combat area after about a month.Basically, the emus had won.  This lead to a certain amount of grousing in the Australian Parliament and foreign press, and the authorities were forced into spin mode to avoid the implication that they had been defeated by birds with brains the size of an almond:After this first 'war', in succeeding years several other attempts were made to exterminate the problem of emus foraging on farmers' lands, but military tactics never fully solved the problem. It was not until some decades later that individual bounties managed to lessen the rapidly expanding emu population. For more information about this harrowing episode in Australian history, check out Scientific American's blogpost about it: The Great Emu War: In which some large, flightless birds unwittingly foiled the Australian Army