 Joseph Boyle's answer is basically right: some regions of the world have geographical features, such as mountains, river or dense forests, that disfavor communication over long distances. Because communication is more limited in such places, there is less chance that the form of language used will spread or influence other neighboring languages or dialects. Such regions become residual zones, with linguistic diversity increasing faster than language death and language replacement can decrease it.But it is actually possible to be more specific about the relationship between the location of linguistic communities in the Caucasus and the region's geography. This is because some of the topography is not uniformly mountainous across the region: in some places the mountains form complicated alpine valleys for hundreds of kilometers in every direction, while in other places the mountains are effectively sheer walls that directly abut wide open plains and valleys. To see this, consider the following topographical map of the Caucasus:As you can see, the region is characterized not by one but two large chains of mountains which run roughly parallel to each other: the Lesser Caucasus mountain chain, which largely separates Georgian from Armenia and eastern Turkey; and the Greater Caucasus mountain chain, which separates Georgia and Azerbaijan from Circassia, North Ossetia, Ingushetia, Chechnya and Daghestan, among other regions in the southern Russian Federation. These two chains however are rather unlike each other, however, as the Lesser Caucasus mountain chain is over all less elevated, and tends to form discontinuous ridges without sharp increases in elevation. The same is not true of the southern slopes of the Greater Caucasus, which almost constitute a natural wall of rock all the way from subtropical Abkhazia in the west to the Iron Gates (Gates of Alexander) in Azerbaijan in the east. Here for example is an image of the plains of Kakheti in Georgia, just south of Daghestan in Georgia: The town of Sinai shown here is actually on one ridge on the other side of a wide valley about 20km from the mountains, which rise from about 700m above sea level very suddenly to about 3000-5000m above sealevel, and in most places are totally impassable except by foot or on horseback (and usually not even then). Now when you compare this to the geography north of these mountains, you can see from the map that the narrow alpine valleys extend for hundreds of miles north of this sudden wall of mountains. Here for example is the village where the Archi language is spoken: (photo by Marina Chumakina: archi_webpage)As you can see, there are only narrow slices of land where human habitations is even possible; in most places, land is only suitable for the rearing of sheep, cattle and other ruminants, and virtually no large-scale agriculture is possible. This kind of topography slopes slowly northward almost all the way to Astrakhan. Putting all these facts together, now compare a map of Caucasian languages: (From: Atlas of the Caucasian languages: Contents)In each of the places in this map where you see a number, a different language is spoken (and in some cases, actually more than one language, since some dialect continua like Dargwa are actually multiple languages). What is striking is how most of the diversity is precisely in the aforementioned regions where the topography is most unsuitable to human habitation. Essentially large conurbations are not possible in these regions, leading historically to population pressures and fissuring of communities. But this also leads to a great movement among populations depending on seasonal fluctuations in pasturage, with the result that pastoral communities high in the mountains often speak all the languages at lower elevations, leading to what Johanna Nichols has termed vertical polylingualism: Archi speakers will often speak Lak and Avar (in addition to Russian), while Lak speakers won't speak Archi, but they will speak Avar (and Russian). You can see this in more detail here:In other regions, like the plains of Mingrelia (Samegrelo) in western Georgia, Kakheti, Kartli or most of Azerbaijan, the topography is relatively flat and, if close enough to mountain sources of water, then good land for agriculture (especially wine, which was invented in this region some 8000 years ago). These lands have historically functioned sociolinguistically more like spread zones, as the language spoken here has shifted a number of times over recorded history.Thus the bottom line is that a large number of languages have developed in the Caucasus because the topography for most of history disfavored all but the most adventurous of movement and with it communication.