 I confess that this is a really hot topic for me; it touches on a whole lot of issues. I'll try to separate them out.It's often engaged in by parents who already have a lot of one gender, and want a child of the other gender. I hate to see parents saying this, because it tells the earlier children that they were somehow a "mistake", or "not what we wanted". It doesn't matter how many times you say "Of course I love my boys, I just wanted a girl", it's got to feel shitty being one of the boys of parents who openly proclaim how much they wanted a girl. I also see families where the much-wanted girl (it's usually a girl in the west) is treated very differently than her older brothers, and is smothered with attention, appears in Mum's facebook more than her siblings, gets lots of new clothes, gets special outings with Mum, etc. To me, that's not OK. Every child should be valued and treated equally (as far as possible, e.g. children with special needs obviously will almost certainly need to receive additional time and attention).It places expectations on unborn children. Children should not be born to fulfill a role for their parents; their only job should be to be who they are. The much-wanted daughter of such parents is born with a job to fulfill her mother's fantasies about mother-daughter activities. What if it turns out that she's a huge tomboy, and hates all the activities that her mother dreams of doing with her? She should be allowed the freedom to be a tomboy, without there being a sense that she's "failed" her mother.It values people for gender rather than their inherent worth as human beings, and is the same thinking that ultimately leads to mass infanticide of baby girls in some countries. Is it a morally comparable activity? No, of course not, I'm not suggesting that. But I am suggesting that it's prompted by the same underlying thinking: the idea that somebody's worth is determined by their gender, or that their gender is the most important thing about them.It reeks of an entitlement mentality that's gob-smacking. Children are not a commodity that you "order" because that's what kind of child you want to parent. Parenting is the most selfless thing you're ever supposed to do; it's not about you.It's ungrateful. If you are in a relationship and the two of you have the gift of being able to have children without assistance, then there are many unpartnered people, and gay and infertile couples, who envy you enormously. Using limited reproductive services for what I consider frivolous and misguided purposes offends me at a very deep level, and I imagine is offensive to those many people who rely on these services, and would be grateful for any child.In life, I try very hard not to be judgmental. Rightly or wrongly, I just experience a deep failure when it comes to this topic. :)