 The Australian Defence Force is well-equipped, highly-trained, and well-regarded internationally.Can it prevent anybody ever mounting a successful one-off attack against the Australian mainland?Well, given the size of our country, that's an extremely high bar to set. But even then, I think we're better-equipped to prevent even that, than most Australians would credit. Our intelligence and surveillance systems are extremely capable, and it's highly unlikely that we could be surprised. (Pearl Harbor-type surprise attacks are, in the context of the contemporary first world, nearly impossible.) Even if such an attack were mounted, it would rapidly be repelled, though there very well may be civilian casualties.Could the Australian Defence Force resist an invading force?On its own, it would put up a better resistance than most Australians would probably credit, but more significantly, it can keep Australian citizens safe until our American allies turn up, and with the help of the US, yes, Australia can retain its sovereignty. (Many think the UK might come to our help due to historical ties. As an aside, we don't interoperate with the UK to anywhere near the same extent as the US, and UK forces are optimised for operating in entirely different climates and political environments, with very different equipment and operating procedures. The UK is very Europe-oriented with equipment and procedures, whereas Australia is far more US-oriented. We very naturally and readily form a cohesive fighting force with our US allies. The UK are still very friendly and may send logistical support, or help with specialised things such as intelligence, but are unlikely, in my opinion, to send significant fighting forces.)The whole reason we went to Iraq (for example) was to maintain our strong alliance with the United States in the event of just such a threat, rather than because we had a direct strategic interest in what happened in Iraq. The US alliance is extremely strong, and the primary contributor to Australia's extremely high capacity to defend itself.