 I'm going to start with some examples of people experiencing racial / ethnic identity crises, where the race that they "are" is different from the race that other people recognise them as, or where their long-established self-identification turns out to be based on falsehood. Marlon Brown: black man with albinismSome black people with albinism report finding it difficult to feel fully accepted in black culture, such as Marlon Brown: Confessions of an African-American albinoPale offspring of biracial parents: the Aylmer twinsThe offspring of biracial parents can have a wide spectrum of skin colour, as evidenced by these twin sisters, Lucy and Maria Aylmer:I haven't seen an article where these two talk about their racial identity, but I imagine that Lucy would not be readily recognised as "black" nor Maria as "white", even though they are twins, and that must be quite confusing. Meet the biracial twins no one believes are sistersWayne Joseph, black man with no African ancestryWayne Joseph and his family have always identified as black - or more particularly, as "coloured" in their Louisiana ancestral home. In 2003, at age 50, he had his DNA tested and was astonished to find that he had 0% African ancestry. Test Suggests 'Black' Man Is Really NotSandy McCutcheon, not Jewish after allAustralian journalist Sandy McCutcheon grew up believing he was adopted from WWII refugee camps, and that he was Jewish. He embraced his Jewish identity, and even won a Jewish playwriting award. When he was nearly 50 years old, he discovered that he was, in fact, the offspring of two Anglo-New-Zealanders, with no known Jewish ancestry. He struggled enormously with his identity, and did quite a bit of media about it in the mid-90s. (Sadly, I can't find any recordings of the radio or TV interviews online, I recall that they were very good.) Australian Story - ArchivesShould people be able to change race?With regards to the second part of your question, fortunately, it makes no sense within an Australian context; we have no "legal recognition" of race with respect to individuals. Race is not recorded on any identity card or record.We are sometimes asked if we're Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander (ATSI) or non-ATSI, because there are some programs specific to ATSI people. We're also asked what race or ethnicity we self-identify as for census purposes.But the Australian government has no official position on what race each individual is, and I find the idea that any other system is viable quite bizarre. In countries where individuals are identified as having a particular race, who decides it? I can't imagine any scheme other than self-identification making any sense, therefore it seems that changing ethnicity or race should be as simple as saying "I no longer identify as race A, I am race B", and filling out any future paperwork consistently with that.Lest anybody thinks otherwise, I am not suggesting people should be obliged to do this, of course. Race only makes sense as self-identification, so people should not be obliged to be racially classified due to DNA or any factor other than self-identification.(Which means that lots of white people - certainly in Australian culture - tick "Horn of Africa" or something on the Census because they can and they think it's funny. Which makes a nonsense of the whole thing, and which is why the Australian government does its utmost to avoid the whole issue. The only division relevant to the Australian government is the approximately 2% of of the population who identify as ATSI, and "the rest". Those who claim ATSI identity usually establish it with reference to tribal and other community members.)