 They don't have to be alike, they have to be compatible, which is somewhat different. All the pieces of a jigsaw are different, but they fit together to make a coherent whole.Couples, unlike jigsaws, don't have to be completely complementary, either, and one needs to studiously avoid the dangerous concept of another person "making you whole". (Puke. You need to be a whole person before you commit to a long-term relationship with another whole person.)So where should you be alike, and where is it OK to be different?Areas where you should agree (or be close enough to find a workable compromise)How integrated you want your lives to be. Some couples do everything together, others have many separate activities and don't even cohabitate. Some are totally open books to each other - sharing account passwords etc - and others maintain a lot of privacy. Some spend just as much time with their friends as when single, others stop doing any independent socialising. You need to ensure that your vision of your "coupleness" is at least compatible (by which I mean you are likely to be able to negotiate something that works for both parties, from those differing starting points).What your family is going to look like. Do you want children, definitely don't want, might want but aren't decided, etc. Do you want your extended family dropping by every day, or only visiting once a year? Do you want to go all out on the holidays, or pretend they're not happening at all?Sex. Do you think sex is an essential component of your relationship, or just a bonus to the companionship? What if one party wants sex and the other doesn't; how will you deal with that? Do you think that infidelity is a deal-breaker, terrible but something that can be worked through, or do you want an open relationship?Money. How much will we spend immediately, and how much will we save? Do we have compatible spending priorities? If we disagree, can we negotiate a compromise? e.g. Put aside some for "blowing" now, and some for savings.Conflict resolution. The most important dimension, because it feeds into all the others, is how you resolve conflicts? Can you talk about difficult subjects without insulting each other or engaging in hyperbole? Engaging in "nasty fighting" - using insults, threats, walking out, etc. during argument - is possibly one of the most accurate predictors of an unhappy relationship.Areas where you can be totally differentPolitical opinions - provided you respect each other.Spirituality - provided you can agree on how you'll raise children, and how it translates into your lives, e.g. contraception.Taste in movies, books, art, clothes, music, etc.Gregariousness.Hobbies.Socio-economic background.