 It may serve to limit rightsAt present, our common law system says that we have a right to do anything that's not legislated against, guided by some fundamental traditions of common law systems, e.g. the influence of liberalism and its emphasis on freedom and equality.Once we attempt to codify this and say that we have rights A, B, and C, it may imply that unstated D, which was a right in a broad common law interpretation, is no longer a right, or is not as important a right. People could argue "well, if the people wanted D to be a right, they would have said so!", but it's quite difficult for any list of rights to be exhaustive, without appearing overly broad.Rights will become politicisedIf a proposed bill of rights is to be the subject of a referendum, then politics will influence what the list is, and some politically unpopular groups may be sacrificed in the name of political expediency. For example, it's sad but true that recognising rights for groups such as indigenous Australians and asylum seekers would be politically challenging; it'd be hard to obtain the requisite double majority. Subsequently, if a referendum passes that doesn't explicitly mention, say, asylum seekers, the Government could argue in Court, quite persuasively, that the people didn't intend for asylum seekers to have rights, because otherwise they would have said so. (See point 1 above.)InflexibilityEven if we could thoroughly codify the rights we want right now, and it wasn't subject to political considerations, the problem with a constitutionally-embedded document is that it's extremely resistant to change in response to changing mores. If it had been done 50 years ago, it almost certainly would have ignored gay rights, for example. And it's likely that rights will widen further in time. It's much easier to change legislation, and for judges to adapt the common law, than to change a constitution.America's 7th Amendment, for example, gives parties a right to trial by jury for all civil matters worth more than $20. 150 years ago, that may have been reasonable, but it hasn't been changed. You can still insist on a jury trial for a $20 dispute! What an enormous waste of human and court resources, as a result of the inflexibility of incorporating it into the constitution.This concern can be addressed by having a legislative, rather than constitutional, bill of rights, and I'm "less opposed" to a legislative bill of rights than a constitutional one. Victoria, the ACT, and England have taken this path.AbsolutismPresently, Australian courts balance common law rights against other factors, such as the rights of other individuals, statutory law, common law precedents, international covenants, etc. One of the negatives, in my view, of a constitutional bill of rights is that these things then tend to be viewed as absolutes. For example, in Australia, one person's freedom of speech is balanced against a whole plethora of other considerations, such as the rights of minorities to feel safe in their environment, and I think courts generally balance these competing concerns very well. If we had the Westboro Baptist Church in Australia, I'm positive we'd find a way to stop them protesting soldiers' funerals - and I think that's a good thing. When you give people, such as the Westboro Baptist Church, a constitutional right, it tends to be viewed as an absolute, and isn't weighed against competing rights. I find that absurd.This concern could also be addressed, by explicitly stating in the bill of rights that rights are always to be considered in a broad context, and balanced against competing rights.In summary, I think that our Courts are actually quite good at protecting our rights, and they do so without having to consider the political consequences. I believe that any constitutional amendment would be highly political, and a legislative bill of rights only slightly less so, and that as a political process, either of these routes would deliver a scope of rights that would be narrower than is presently enjoyed.