 There are vast differences, most of which flow from the primary difference, which is that yields are much lower in Australia. Therefore, making money from Australian property is primarily via capital growth (appreciation), rather than via rental income. It is nearly impossible to buy property in Australia that will be cashflow-positive at the outset; yields in capital cities are frequently only in the range of 3%, where in comparable areas in the USA they'd be over 10%. My experience has been that yields are around 4 times higher in the United States, as a % yield, to comparable properties in Australia. (For comparable demographics, type of property, etc.)As a consequence, in Australia, having a tenant is merely "an inconvenience that one tolerates for the sake of subsidising the cost of holding the asset whilst waiting for growth", but rental income is not the main game.Some other differences:Laws are much, much more tenant-friendly in Australia, and if landlords breach them, they'll get eaten alive at Tribunal. So it requires some significant expertise to learn all the appropriate laws, and ensure every notice is served at the appropriate time. Hence, that brings me to my next point...Nearly all landlords outsource the management of property in Australia to professional third parties. Property management is usually done by real estate agents in Australia; nearly every real estate agency has two arms: "selling" and "leasing". (Though some agencies specialise in one or the other.)Payment of rent is electronic; it's usually not even possible to pay rent via any other method in Australia. The idea of a landlord visiting a tenant to collect rent in cash is an entirely foreign concept to Australian landlords. (In fact, without special arrangements in place, it would be illegal in Australia.)Because Australian landlords tend to be more "hands off", they feel no need to restrict themselves to a particular area, and frequently an Australian property investor will own properties in multiple states across the country, for diversification.In Australia, tenancies can begin and end on any day of the month. Rent is also paid weekly, or fortnightly (every two weeks), rather than monthly. The amount payable by a tenant is calculated down to the day when they leave. So a tenant can move in on the 16th, and move out a year and 8 days later on the 23rd, and they'll pay rent for 374 days exactly.Bonds (security deposits) are held by an independent third party, not the landlord, in Australia. Typically, the whole amount is returned to the tenant at the end of the tenancy. If the landlord wants some withheld, they either have to secure the agreement of the tenant, or make their case at Tribunal.The allocation of expenses between landlord and tenant is pretty much the same in each country.American landlords discuss which gun is most suited for rent collecting. O.o I guarantee that this is not something that would ever cross the mind of an Australian property investor.Australian tradesmen are much more expensive than their American counterparts. Repairs can be more costly here. On the flipside, we have negligible black mold issues, and almost nobody has (or requires) central heating, so there are very few possible very expensive, "invasive" repairs that are likely in Australia.