 Because saying "Islam is to blame for terrorism" doesn't get us anywhere.I don't believe that it's true, but let's pretend that it is. Many people seem to want to hear this, but sensible leaders and thoughtful citizens don't come out and say it because they recognise that it doesn't move things forward.Let's do a thought experiment. The UN comes out with a statement: "Islam is a bad religion, and the driver for terrorism."What next?Over 1.5 billion people, or around 25% of the planet's population, are Muslim.Do we kill them all? Obviously that's not viable. (And clearly morally repugnant.)Do we force them to renounce their religion? I don't even know how that's possible. Do we introduce global laws illegalising the Quran, mosques, etc.? Is that the kind of world we want to live in, anyway?If we can't kill or convert them all, and Islamic terrorism is a problem that we want to address, can we do it without the 24%+ of the planet's population who are Muslim and not terrorists?We just can't. Further, how do you think the 24%+ are going to react to being labelled as complicit? Do you think that's going to motivate them to want to join with the remaining 75% of the planet to tackle Islamic terrorism, or is it more likely to drive them to extremism? Human nature tells me that it's the latter; if 75% of the planet is telling me I'm a "bad person", then I'm going to stick with the people who accept me. Even if some of them are brutes. We need to make it feel safe, and not a betrayal of their religion, for the 24%+ to ally themselves with non-Muslims.The only way to tackle the scourge of Islamic terrorism is to do it alongside those Muslims who share the western world's concerns. We can't do that by "tarring all Muslims with the same brush", we do it by focusing our criticisms on the terrorism that is our primary and shared concern.Let us also not forget that Muslims are overwhelmingly the victims of terrorism. Western outrage is what we primarily hear, but the victims of terrorism are nearly all Muslim. Muslims are at least as concerned about these behaviours as progressive western non-Muslims, but they don't have the freedom of speech that we are privileged to enjoy, and so we don't hear it. But don't doubt for a moment that the vast majority of Muslims are as repulsed by these behaviours as the rest of the world. Their (apparent) silence should not be misinterpreted as complicity.If we manage to successfully eliminate terrorism side-by-side with our Muslim sisters and brothers, enough goodwill will have been generated for us to have the much more difficult conversations about reforming and modernising Islam.But right now, I'm sorry, I won't engage in a philosophical discussion about whether Islam is a net positive or negative, because it's entirely counter-productive.