 Shikhar AgarwalI was going to sleep when I decided to check Quora one last time. I noticed a new A2A. When I read the question, the first thing that came to my mind was, "Am I already dreaming?" :)For me, it's like a dream come true - a dream that I along with several other millions of people saw as a nation - to have more Nobel laureates from India. Mr Kailash Satyarthi, you have made us all very proud. Such a noble deed, and such a nobel prize! Congratulations!To be very frank, I am not happy just because an Indian won a Nobel Prize. Large part of it comes when I think about the significance and possible effects that it can potentially have on our society. Before this news, most of the people neither knew his name nor what he does. But now he would become a household name, getting a place in general knowledge books, 1000s of articles, and millions of tweets and FB updates. With this, people would come to know more about one of the most evil practices prevalent in our society - child labor. They, of course, have heard about it, but the large scale "marketing" would spread awareness among the masses.Here is my little contribution: According to 2009-10 census [1], there were around 5 million children between the age group 5 - 14 who had been denied the right to enjoy childhood privileges like education and had been forced to work in unhealthy environment thus adversely affecting their physical and mental development. Not only this, they are abused, ill-treated, beaten-up and paid very meager wages if at all. Child labor, though itself a huge problem, gives rise to other evils like human trafficking and rapes. It also exposes huge gaps in the society - like poverty, unemployment, lack of schools, inefficient laws and so on. Hence generating awareness about child labor has a much bigger impact as it also highlights a lot of other issues.Kailash Satyarthi [2] is a children's rights activist and has been active in the movement against child labour since the 1990s. His organization, Bachpan Bachao Andolan, has freed over 80,000 children till now and has helped in their successful re-integration, rehabilitation and education. He has not only raided 1000s of factories till now, he has build up a global movement against child labor. He heads the Global March Against Child Labor, a conglomeration of 2000 social-purpose organizations and trade unions in 140 countries [3]. He has also been a part of UNESCO in this regards.This was a summary about the problems and Kailash's contributions. I insist you to contribute more.On behalf of 1.2 billion people, especially those children who he has given an opportunity to dream, I would like to send my heart-felt wishes to this great man. Sir, I am sure you would become a role model for a lot of people. Hats off to you! You surely deserve this award as a small token of appreciation for all your selfless efforts in this noble fight.Further reading:[1] Child labour in India [2] Kailash Satyarthi[3] Kailash Satyarthi