 Shikhar AgarwalConsider a bird. When it is a baby, it resides in the nest and cannot fly. Its parents bring food for it. So it generally develops a psychological dependence that must be overcome. Parent birds begin to teach them flying by remaining a short distance away during feeding - so the baby bird has to step away from the nest, and "fly" towards the food. In the initial stages, it falls many times, but eventually spreads its wings to conquer the mighty sky.(Flying on the wings of vulnerability)Each child that is born is like a baby bird, which has the potential to fly high and explore the hidden treasures of the world. They are not born with a non-creative gene. So why are Indian students generally non-creative? Let's get back to the bird example.Parent birds endeavor to make their children independent. If a child is kept in protection till the age of 22, he has already lost his best years of creativity. In the West, a child from the beginning is taught to be independent. They earn their own pocket-money, save money for college, etc. So they are forced to find ways to earn their living while young which leads to a creative, innovative and entrepreneurial attitude.What if the parent birds send their baby birds to a famous, reward-guaranteed, future-securing hunting course taught by a lion? However hard anyone tries, the birds will neither learn to fly nor hunt like a lion, and they would lose all their confidence. Similarly, forcing the children to become an engineer or a doctor without respecting their interests kill all their dreams to fly.What if the parent birds teach their baby birds only to compete against other birds for food? Wouldn't the birds then only concentrate on food? From the Montessori itself Indian students are just told to get good marks. If that's what the goal is for a student, and also the only way to earn respect in the society, then why waste time thinking outside the box?Beside the society and parents, students are to be blamed too. They don't want to take risk and care too much about what others think of them. A society trained to appreciate just marks would only judge you on that parameter, and one needs to have the courage to ignore "log kya kahenge" (what would society say), take risk and believe in his dreams to do somethings different or do usual things differently.