 Shikhar AgarwalKrishna lives on Earth so that you can refer to Gita when confused about your duties and actions, read Ramayana to know how to stick to your responsibilities, learn from Narasimha that anything is possible by thinking out of the box, understand that everything can be lost in an instant by a blind promise by reading about Vamana, and follow the footsteps of Sita, Lakshman and Sudama to become an ideal spouse, sibling and friend. Suppose I tell you that you would be getting 100% in Maths this academic year, what would you do? Go on vacations or study hard? In which case would you actually get 100%? You would probably study hard because you know for sure that going on vacations would certainly not get you that top grade. Similarly, Krishna lives on Earth not because he knows what is going to happen when he is here, but because he knows what the world would become if he doesn't come here. Imagine the world with the likes of devils like Ravana or Hiranyaksha, females getting disrobed in the public, brothers killing each other, in short, total chaos spread like an epidemic. Whenever the balance between adharma and dharma shifts in the favor of the former, Krishna comes to restore it back."Yada Yada Hi Dharmasya, Glanirva Bhavathi Bharatha,Abhyuthanam Adharmaysya, Tadatmanam Srijami Aham'."Whenever there is decay of righteousness O! Bharatha And a rise of unrighteousness, then I manifest Myself!" Bhagavad Gita (Chapter IV-7)You may ask why does he care for the world, why is he so attached to it when he himself says in the Gita to remain unattached? The answer is that he is not.He is doing what he says, he is following his dharma, his responsibility to show us the path, the path to our goals, aspirations and a righteous, fulfilled life.Whatever action a great man performs, common men follow. O son of PRth, there is no work prescribed for Me within all the three planetary systems. Nor am I in want of anything, nor have I a need to obtain anything  and yet I am engaged in prescribed duties. For if I ever failed to engage in carefully performing prescribed duties, O Prtha, certainly all men would follow My path. If I did not perform prescribed duties, all these worlds would be put to ruination, thereby destroying the peace of all living beings. As the ignorant perform their duties with attachment to results, the learned may similarly act, but without attachment, for the sake of leading people on the right path. - Bhagavad Gita (3.21 - 3.25)Hope this clears your doubt.