 Shikhar AgarwalI put "Idol worship is not permitted in Hinduism" in Bing Translate, and after a chain of multiple languages, English->Bulgarian->..->Chinese->..->Danish, the final result was, "In the Hindu ban on worship"!!So consider this hypothetical case: An old learned sage tells his young student, "Idol worship is permitted in Hinduism". A devotee comes to the student's house and asks him about his views on idol worship to which the student replies, "Idol worship is permitted, but not necessary." Like in Chinese-Whisper game, the devotee who was half-listening, thinks that what he heard was "Idol worship is not permitted" and writes this in a book. A Chinese person, inquisitive about Hinduism translates this in Chinese which get translated to Danish by a Danish scholar. An Indian goes to a Euro trip, buys the book and uses Bing to translate it back to English, which eventually gives birth to Advaita Vedanta philosophy. So you see how over time, 3 very different schools of thoughts can be formed?Building up on this example, let's see some of the many reason why Hinduism appears so complex:Very ancient: Depending on your beliefs, Hinduism is atleast 7000 years old. Initially the knowledge was transferred orally which then got written in some ancient language and further got translated in many languages, many times. Each scripture has 2 parts: a universal and a temporal. Often these gets mixed and misinterpreted by different authors leading to deviation.Dharmic nature: Unlike Abrahamic religions, Hinduism doesn't have a list of Do's and Don'ts. It's basic principles are karma, dharma, truth, etc which changes from person to person, from time to time. A person who doesn't understand these principles sees seven colors in the sky, while for others, it's one beautiful rainbow.Aham Brahmasmi, Tat Tvam Asi: Which means I am Brahman, so are you. In Hinduism, every living being is equal and God resides in all. Therefore, we worship our parents, teachers, plants and animals. From childhood, we see inequality, and hence this complexity, otherwise it is simply universality.Freedom and Easy to misuse: With great freedom comes great responsibility, but many people don't realize this. So they misuse Hinduism's open-endedness to modify or frame policies to benefit a certain section of people. This has added a lot of noise over time like superstitions, dowry, caste system, self-made babas, etc which demotivates people to study about the real greatness.For a beginner, "light" would seem to be a mystery - it's a wave, particle, colored, visible, invisible and so on. But then, we systematically study it's properties and Physics behind it over certain years to appreciate it's intrinsic beautiful form. Similarly, to understand Hinduism, you have to put some efforts. Start with some basic stuff without overwhelming yourself by it's vastness. Read some Quora answers, good commentaries and scriptures, watch mythological shows on Youtube and you would realize that Hinduism is not at all a mystery, but a very easy path to follow for a common man.