 Shikhar AgarwalNo, not at all. Dowry is a social menace and no action on the part of the girl can justify you asking for it. If any of her questions and concerns make you feel uncomfortable, then you have the privilege to walk out of talks, but falling to the level of asking dowry only deserves punishment by law.I don't want to be rude, but want you to realize that there is a fundamental flaw not only in your argument, but also in your attitude. You wish to compare oranges to oranges but what comparison would you make for the fact that after marriage she would leave her comfortable house, her blood relatives, her childhood friends, her freedom and her dreams to continuously sloth for a total stranger and his family (which happens in typical scenarios)? In almost all cases, an arranged marriage is seen as a ticket for the boy's parents to retire comfortably without worrying about cleanliness, food and grand-children, just because the bride is expected to single-handedly look after all of family's needs. What would you compare these with? Don't think too much, there is nothing. I believe the least you can do is to provide her financial security in the strange-land.In an institution of arranged marriage, where both the parties have very limited time to make decisions, compatibility is primarily judged on quantitative factors like salaries, education and degrees and to some extent on accepted questions on hobbies and family background and not-so-accepted questions like "Are you willing to leave your job and stay at home". Actual relevant things like emotional, mental and physical compatibility, that is essential to any relationship, is almost never thought of. In such a scenario, it's not only a girl's right, but her duty to ask for the boy's salary so that she can convince herself that atleast she can potentially live a comfortable life as far as financial aspect is concerned.The society may frown upon dowry sighting terms like "cheap", "greed" and so on, but all these terms fall short of the actual status it deserves - "unacceptable". Marriage is a sacred relationship where both parties accept each other's similarities and differences. Make sure that you don't build it's foundation on something that is unacceptable.