 Shikhar AgarwalA disciple asks Buddha, "Guruji, there are many people who constantly argue about various beliefs, some say world is infinite or soul is eternal, others says it doesn't exist and so on. I am very confused by these."Buddha, replies "Once a king assembled several blind men in a room and told them, 'Here is an elephant'. He then gave them a model of different parts of an elephant like his head, tusk, tail, ear and foot. After a couple of minutes, he asks them, 'What sort of thing is an elephant?' Those who were given the tail said that it's like a brush, those given head said its like a pot and so on. And then they began quarreling, 'It's like that', 'No, like that' and so on."Buddha, smiling, explains to his disciple, "Similar is the case with the people. They only see a particular side of a thing and assume that it represents it entirely. In their ego and lack of knowledge and acceptance, they cling to their points of view, while the truth remains woefully ignored."The huge count of 330 million comes from two factors:Our incomplete realization: Similar to the story above, God is one, but our limited knowledge makes us think that he is like Fire (Agni), Air (Vaayu), creator (Vishnu), Shakti (Goddess) and Knowledge (Saraswati), and our ignorance makes us think that they are different from each other, and hence we count them as distinct.The basic philosophy of Hinduism: This includes aham brahmsmi (I am Brahman (God)) and tat tvam asi (Thou art That). In this way, sages, rivers, rocks, animals, and every human being in general is divine and hence God. The number 330 million comes from Upanishads, and according to me, this would have been the approximate population at the time when Upanishads were written, thus in-line with the above philosophy. Combining with point 1, every individual is counted as distinct.That also explains why scriptures like Gita, etc stresses on the equality of all beings, and doing karma according to dharma. The latter is helpful to the society and thus is just like a prayer to all the Gods in these fellow beings.