 Shikhar AgarwalIt was 5th November 2013 when India's historic Mars mission Mangalyaan made tryst with destiny and social media, instead of being a part of the dream very few could see, was flooded with questions like "Why waste money on the Mars mission when it could have been used for education, poverty and hunger reduction, healthcare and so on?" And today, when Mangalyaan conquered Mars, the world is at a loss of words. There are no questions being asked, no comments being passed. It's just pure admiration, admiration for the dream, admiration of the work well done, admiration that it just took $75 million compared to NASA's $671 million, admiration that India is the first and the only country in the world to reach Mars' orbit in its first attempt. "India" and "ISRO" are trending on Twitter, people are going crazy on Facebook and NASA has become a laughing stock. ISRO has proved actions speak louder than words. So my first feelings are expressed through a combination of lovely quotes:You have to dream before your dream comes true - Abdul KalamEnjoy the game and chase your dreams. Dreams do come true - Sachin TendulkarPutting an object in the Mars' orbit is not just a child's play. The aircraft has to successfully launch from the Earch, travel 29760000 km to reach Mars and then fire the right rockets at the right time for the precise duration. It is an extraordinary feat, rare to achieve, and shows excellence and brilliance in Maths, Physics, Astronomy, Manufacturing and so on. The international media is full of praise for India. NASA itself has send its heartiest congratulations. People in the entire world are giving a standing ovation. Today, India has earned renewed respect, and I am feeling it trickling down to me.Unless India stands up to the world, no one will respect us. In this world, fear has no place. Only strength respects strength. - Abdul KalamAchievements like these not only influences the present population, but it inspires the future generations to dream, to aspire for the impossible and to get fascinated by Science and make godly advancement in the field. It becomes a reason for the entire country to unite and feel proud, and bring confidence to the minds of the people about the future progress.I cannot express in words how proud and happy I am to be fortunate enough to witness this historic moment. I congratulate India, ISRO and innumerable hidden faces that made this achievement possible. I would like to end this with a part of speech which Jawaharlal Nehru gave on India's Independence:The achievement we celebrate today is but a step, an opening of opportunity, to the greater triumphs and achievements that await us. Are we brave enough and wise enough to grasp this opportunity and accept the challenge of the future?I know we are, we just have to prove it. Congratulations in advance for many more to come. To India, I bow, Jai Hind.