 Gauri NoolkarIf there was one word to define the Indian take on patriotism, it would be: volatile.Indians are a rather emotional people, and hence, their perception of something like patriotism inclines towards being emotional as well. Other factors such as Indian philosophy, a long history, colonial rule, intrinsic diversity and religion play important roles in shaping the Indian definition of patriotism.1. SacrificeThe most widely accepted definition of patriotism across India is "willingness, even eagerness, to sacrifice one's life for the country". In this sense, the members of the Indian armed forces are considered to be patriotic by default; no one really considers the possibility of a soldier who is more professional than patriotic.The concept of sacrifice occupies a pedestal in Indian philosophy and culture, and hence anyone who 'sacrifices' anything 'for the country' is a patriot. Giving up one's family to work for the masses, giving up money to work for the poor, giving up fame and power and dedicate one's life for the defense, upliftment, progress of the country... of course, these actions make one a patriot in almost any other country in the world, but in India, the larger the sacrifice, the more the patriotism. Note, the sacrifice is many a times more important than the actual, further actions of the person.2. An Old CivilisationAn Indian who is proud of Indian history and culture is deemed as a patriot by popular opinion. The subcontinent has more than 5000 years of prosperous history, and thus holds a high emotional value for a lot of people who equate patriotism with pride. Nostalgia for the rich and powerful past, and the admiration for any of its threads continued in the present is a very popular form of patriotism among many Indians.A growing, if not equal number of Indians retaliate with the opposite: opposition, even denial, of the past as a viable source of pride is very much in trend these days. 3. The Colonial RuleIn its most rudimentary form, Indian patriotism is bashing the British. Ironically, my experience is that people who have actually experienced the British rule (like my grandparents) bash the British the least, though they make it clear that it wasn't pretty. The British rule has influenced the Indian mindset, and especially its take on patriotism, by leaps and bounds, and pushed it to both extremes. One goes down the ultra-nationalist way, blaming the British for pretty much everything that is wrong with this now-pathetic-once-glorious country. The other follows what the British tried so hard to imbibe (and succeeded at): that our culture, language, history, lifestyle is nothing to be proud of, and patriotism is a feeling that is best discarded. Moderate views form the majority, but the extremes usually have the voice.4. DiversityDiversity at every level of society means that the average Indian has more than one 'kingdom' to attach his loyalty to. He can be proud of his region, state, community, sub-caste, caste, sect, religion, race, language group, and nationality - all at the same time. Pride, fondness, attachment, admiration -call it whatever you like - operating for different identities at multiple levels, all at the same time, can be very confusing. The British were the first to generate a single identity that resonated with the majority across the country - Indian. Strange though it may seem, the British were responsible for the current face of patriotism in the country. However, once they left, the confusion grew again, and it persists to this day.This too has a counter wave of Indians refusing themselves (and sometimes, others) to find any patriotic feeling for any of the institutions they happen to be associated with. I had one Quoran vociferously denouncing me for keeping and liking my last name. While the emergence of such an attitude is understandably a reaction to extremism in pride and patriotism, it is simply a stark example of how extreme, contrary, and emotionally charged the perceptions of Indians are of patriots and patriotism.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------The Indian understanding of patriotism has very little to do with actual, constructive action except perhaps that of the armed forces. A fan cheering hard for India during an India v. Pakistan cricket match registers instantly as a 'patriotic Indian' in the average Indian mind, but a well-off professional environmentalist or conservationist working to conserve India's natural or historical biodiversity is simply a...well, professional. The strong and growing extremes of 'patriotism is everything' and 'to hell with patriotism' make the concept of patriotism further convoluted in the Indian context.