 Gauri NoolkarI read this question just after I read an article in the news which spoke about how the Arab World was not stepping up to help their brethren, so I do not agree with your statement that no one is pointing fingers at them.Also, right since 2011, countries like Jordan and Lebanon (both Arab) have been taking in refugees right since the outset of the war. Earlier, they took in Iraqi refugees as well. And 0h, Palestinian refugees before that. Today, about 25% of Lebanon's population (a freakishly tiny country) is refugee. That doesn't make news for most of the world though.Truth to tell, there is no one solution to the migrant crisis. Also, the whole situation is extremely complex and as a novice in the field, the more I dig in, the more it overwhelms me. I am sorry, I have no concrete solution.It is easy to take a position on whether European countries should accept the migrants, especially when you are rooted rock solid in your point of view. For instance, human rights activists have it crystal clear - they should be taken in and rehabilitated. Then there are those who firmly believe in the economic lens - that the burden of refugees on their economy will do them no good, and it should not be theirs to bear. The religious angle is sceptical of the change migrants will bring, and anti-Islamists will stress on the possible spread of Islamic fundamentalism.All of these make sense when views them through just that one angle, but bring all aspects into picture and its a mess - and no one answer. European countries have their own problems which are not conducive to acceptance of refugees, yet they cannot just shut their doors on the face of fellow human beings. As to why Arab countries are not being questioned, well most of them are either in no condition to accept refugees (Yemen and Iraq for example), or hold enough clout to refuse refugees point blank. It is true that they should be roped in, though.The refugees are not an 'Arab' responsibility, they are a global responsibility. Countries which turn them away for short term problems and goals risk creating resentment and more fundamentalism. Countries which actually take them in are faced with the additional tasks of convincing the host population and putting in extra efforts -social, economic, political, cultural- to make sure that the refugees gel in with the society in order to prevent future social tensions. Countries like Lebanon and Jordan which are already creaking under the immense weight of refugees need to be helped with the burden. Every solution comes with its own set of problems, and I feel helpless as I cannot provide a viable solution, after all this rambling, after all.