 Gauri NoolkarThe opinions are deeply divided here on Quora, as they are among the general Indian population. The rationale behind discarding the talks is compelling - Pakistan greets with one hand and stabs with the other, all the while denying the latter, in a frustratingly consistent manner. There are times when Pakistan makes me feel "to hell with them" so strongly, that any talks appear not only futile, but also a naive, stupid attempt on India's part. I do wish India wasn't so soft and had a spine, but then, I wish that about India and Indians regarding a lot of things, and wishing hasn't done anyone any good. So yes, as a citizen who loves this country and is concerned by any attacks on it, I find talking to a frequent stabber pointless.Yet, pushing myself to thinking further, I have no concrete, sustainable and profitable answer to "if not talks, then what?". We cannot do away with the fact that whether we like it or not, Pakistan is going to be our neighbour, and hence, what happens there affects us. Doesn't it irritate you when the couple in the neighbouring flat fights loudly and incessantly? You do want some quiet after all. Also, living in a limbo - not fighting, not talking, having issues, but not solving them - does us no good either. We'd either pull out our swords and end each other, or sit together and talk - anything to get a conclusion. Since clearly, ripping off each others' heads isn't the popular trend in international relations, we are left with talking and sorting things out. The important part here is to sort things out - so that our people, culture, economy, security and environment take less of a beating. And if talks are the only way to do it, well, then so be it.Of course, that does not mean that we keep quiet. Expecting Pakistan to shed its anti-India, anti-Hindu sentiment and turn mature and broad-minded overnight is laughable, but we have to take the higher ground here and put peace and security ahead of getting irritated by them. At the same time, Pakistan should be pulled up each and every time they do something that thwarts the process; we should continuously bolster our defense and intelligence capabilities, and follow up with Pakistan sternly and rigorously every time they 'bring a terrorist to justice'. In short, talking with patience and fairness at the front, and a tightly clenched fist ready for defense (not offense) at the back is the only way to go.