 Gauri NoolkarTerrifying and hilarious.Those were Christmas vacations, and my cousins had come over to stay. We were three girls in the age group of 9-11 years.In those days, my father, a doctor and a surgeon, would regularly visit rural areas around our city and treat rural patients. Every weekend, he would take out his car at the crack of dawn, and return home, tired but content, late night. One Sunday that winter, he picked us three and decided to take us with him. The reason was - the weekly vegetable bazaar in one of the villages he was visiting that day. He decided that the time had come for his daughter and nieces to learn a bit about rural life, picking and choosing vegetables, and dealing with multiple monetary transactions. He packed us in his car just before the crack of dawn, and we took off.It was early morning when we reached the village which was to be our hunting ground. The village bazaar was already buzzing with activity. My father gave us a few grocery bags, a thick wad of currency notes, and a piece of paper with the address of the hospital scribbled on it and he drove off.As the dust swept up by his car began dying down, three pairs of eyes gazed wonderingly at the vibrant scene. Heaps and heaps of fresh, colourful vegetables lay all around us. Farmers sat down on their hunches behind these heaps and cried out the prices in hoarse voices. Women in colourful sarees and men in super white shirts and dhotis shopped and walked and haggled. A small merry-go-round creaked musically as small kids rode it and chirped with joy. Next to him, a milkman was selling fresh milk and butter. A thelawala served hot tea and bhajiyas, his neighbour sold earthen pots, and right behind them, flanked by women from all sides, another guy sold brightly coloured bangles.We three urban kids drank it all in. After considerable goldfish-y gulping, we decided to commence our task. Sincere in our demeanour, we approached the nearest old lady who was selling tomatoes, and our shopping kicked off.It went well, and being three rather than one helped. We were particularly happy with ourselves when we managed to buy some really fresh, green, beautiful fenugreek and decided to perch it like a crown on top of one of our already full shopping bag (so that my father would spot it first and beam with pleasure). That done, we moved on to buying some other vegetables.The bag that was full (fenugreek on the top) was kept down between me and one of the cousins, the leaves very lightly grazing our bare knees, while the other circled the farmer in order to check out the vegetables on the other side. While we haggled, I felt a slight, moist sensation on my calf, but I ignored it - until I saw the other cousin, on the opposite side, staring between us two with eyes as big and round as saucers. I looked down to the shopping bag.A cow was eating our precious fenugreek.My cousin was quick to react - she gave an earth-shattering shriek, leapt over the farmer - vegetables and all - and was off. I was slow; I stared in terror, then uttered something loud and unintelligible, and was off too. The third followed. And our shopping bag lay there in the middle, orphaned and vulnerable, while the cow dragged the fenugreek out, threw it aside, and followed us.Looking back, I think it was the din we caused that made her chase us. At that moment however, my 11-year-old brain had no time or capacity to think. As the cow chased us, we panicked even more, we ran through the market screaming, our frocks and pigtails flying. The cow followed, trampling whatever vegetables came her way, though thankfully, the road was large enough for her to not collide with most of the heaps. The crowd was surprisingly agile, and it quickly made way for the screaming girls and the galloping cow, and no one was hurt. But the whole market came to a standstill, and so did the traffic. Finally, one of the farmers managed to calm the cow down and take her away. The old lady who sold us tomatoes brought our shopping bags and leftover money with a toothy grin. When asked where we wanted to go, we feebly said "the hospital", and since it was the only one in the village, we were taken there easily.We plopped down on the chairs in the hospital lobby. We were completely dishevelled, red in the face, and shaken. We were terrified! The fenugreek was gone, but that was the least of our worries. Images of the cow at our heels, tearing through the market kept coming back at us. Slowly, the shock wore off, and the quantum leap of our cousin over the farmer and his stock got us smiling and then rolling with laughter. What an experience!!... A patient could not keep his appointment and was late. We watched as he hustled past us into my father's cabin. Outside, we could hear my father asking him sternly the reason for being late."What could I do, Doctor? There was so much traffic. I had no option but to wait.""Traffic is a very regular excuse," my father said sharply, " you should have left in time. You cannot take health related matters so lightly.""I did leave on time, Doctor. I would have reached 5-10 minutes early if there wasn't the whole commotion at the market.""What commotion?!""Well you see, there was some talk about a cow chasing three school girls... what an uproar... those girls brought the whole market to a standstill, and choked up the traffic as well. We had to wait until the cow was brought under control and the girls were dropped off wherever they were supposed to go..."I still remember how hard my father laughed.