 Gauri NoolkarMost of my generation first heard of Canada due to Celine Dion, the singer of "My Heart Will Go On". We thought she was American, but hey, she turned out to be from - what? Kanedda. In India, Canada (or to be precise, Kanedda) is that lesser-known, less controversial, colder cousin of the USA (or to be precise, Amayreeka) heavily preferred by Indian (read Punjabi) population to migrate to. And oh, the word Kanedda is to be always, always said with a follow up of Punjabi sounding drum beats in the mind...sort of the dhink chik taak chik, dhink chik taak chik kind.Canada for Indians is the good, quiet cousin of USA which seldom appears in the news. They do not declare unpleasant wars across the globe, they do not have random gun firing in the streets, and they do not have Hollywood. But they have tons and tons of us, and many in the emerging upper middle class can name some acquaintance settled in Kanedda (oye hoye!).Q&A Jokes such as "What is the capital of Kanedda? Chandigarh!", "What is the national food of Kanedda? Paneer!" abound since the Sikhs and other Punjabis form a considerable portion of the Canadian community. Other Indian communities too thrive in the country, and largely report being happy and comfortable being a Kaneddian. They say that you can be a Canada and still retain your culture, identity and religion, which is not always possible in the 'melting pot' of America, and that makes Canada a favourite destination for most Indians.Except the cold. Canadian winters are dreaded by we Indians who are used to enjoying plenty of mildness in our winters (except the northerners, but then, North Indian winter is still mild compared to Canadian winter). The snow is attractive, at least for the newbies or those who have never been to Kanedda or seen snow in their life. That's where the talk of Kanedda v. Florida or Texas or California begins. That's just armchair talk though, we like Kanedda for its cleanliness and natural beauty, its combination of opportunities and a quiet life, and of course, the fast track visas.Kanedda!! (dhink chik taak chik, dhink chik taak chik...)