 Gauri NoolkarThis is a difficult question to answer, as it has multiple aspects to it. First of all, it is important to define 'overall prosperity'. Do you mean real per capita incomes, GDP, or even (come to think of it) HDI? Prosperity is relative, hard to define and complex to measure and hence determining if something is good or bad for it is even more so.The concept of the sharing economy is not new; people, especially in developing nations and collectivist societies, have been a part of it for centuries. It is only recently (in the past 10-15 years, maybe) that the term has formally come up.In order to judge the sharing economy, since you have not mentioned any concrete parameters, I would like to define 'overall prosperity' as I see it - fulfilment of, and an increase in the ability to fulfil, one's needs and wants while minimizing adverse externalities. By adverse externalities, I largely mean environmental damage, though I am aware there can be other possibilities as well. I admit and accept that this can be a rather crude definition, but it helps. Keeping this definition in view, I can see two factors which make the sharing economy a good thing. From the point of view of a consumer, a sharing economy opens me up to a wider range of choices, and provides me with more information about maximum goods and services. A sharing economy constantly keeps me in touch with other consumers and information sources (Internet, forums, interest groups, individuals etc.) and thus keeps me informed about prices, quality, substitutes, supply trends, producers, market composition, and other factors which enable me to choose better, and thus maximise my satisfaction. Sharing goods and services means I also share resources. Which means that I fulfil my need/want by purchasing/consuming less than usual, or sometimes, such as in the case of borrowed cars, clothes, or appliances, not purchasing at all. That is not just some natural resource saved from being consumed, but it is also another natural resource used efficiently. A sharing economy promotes saving, conserving, and efficient utilisation in many ways. By reducing the amount of input required to fulfil a need or want, it contributes to increasing our ability to fulfil the need or want, and at the same time, through saving, conservation and efficient utilisation, it reduces adverse environmental impacts. I am aware that I have not addressed how this affects producers and governments in detail. Yes, businesses that produce and sell goods and services which are shared in the economy are impacted, and income, employment and consumption in their sector take a hit. It can also discourage producers from expanding and innovating, thus affecting growth. Ultimately, this can come back to bite the consumer in the form of a shrinking/limited range of choices, low incomes (and purchasing power), low employment levels, and an unexciting economy. Reduction in fresh production and consumption can reduce revenue coming from certain type of taxes as goods are passed on and re-used and services are shared. This is not a pretty picture. In a nutshell, like most other things in economies, the presence of a sharing economy will yield mixed results. Your personal opinion will depend on your role in the economy, and how you define prosperity for yourself and for the community as whole.