 Gauri NoolkarI will try to answer this question with the story of a woman who completed her PhD recently.She was by no means privileged, but she had dreams which few women from her generation could relate to. She wanted to do a PhD long back, but the humdrum and duties of daily life neither allowed her nor motivated her to take that step. She was daughter-in-law to a struggling household, wife to an ailing husband, and mother to a young boy, while working as a professor in a nearby college. PhD went on the back burner.She finally did take it up. True, she had been in touch with her subject due to her profession. She was quite intelligent, well-read, with good language and writing skills. But she was not a genius.Also, she was 55. Which meant that she had spent most of her life without the technologies we youngsters so take for granted, and had to grow comfortable with them overnight. Which also meant that along with her PhD, she had work commitments and home commitments. Which also meant that she didn't have the advantage of energy, swiftness and flexibility we young students possess but are rarely aware of.She signed up anyway. Her guide seemed to be brilliant, but he did not seem to grasp the genuine obstacles that came with her age and profile. As time passed, it became clear that she could expect neither support nor empathy, and that she was on her own. She ploughed through.Her son completed his education and started working. His girlfriend did too, and he asked her hand in marriage. These were crucial times, and suddenly, a marriage was on the cards. Work commitments continued to persist and increase. Health issues cropped up, and age took its toll. And to top it all, the system and her guide posed quite a challenge.She did not stop. Sure, she panicked, stressed, lost hope, met with dead ends, and wanted to give it up. But she did not stop. Four days before she retired, she was awarded the PhD.This woman is my mother-in-law.Her difficult journey taught me a lot about the nit and grit of doing a PhD, and only made my resolve stronger. Salient points I learnt were - 1. Being a genius is not a requirement; it is a bonus. You do need to be intelligent, and equally importantly, you need to have a sound, solid foundation. My mother-in-law floundered with margins in MS-Word and macros in MS-Excel, but her research and analysis were flawless.2. You need to have focus. And not the "one lecture and I am done!" focus, but the "I will stay focused as long as it takes" focus. She had that. With the million responsibilities and milestones middle-age brings, she never lost sight of that PhD.3. Yet, you need to be flexible with priorities. No, she did not lock herself in a room all five years, but she shut off everything else (including the kitchen) when she studied and worked on her PhD. Of course, it wasn't smooth. She might not have been perfect, but she divided her time pretty well. She taught me that life doesn't stop, and that just because PhD stretches long, you cannot procrastinate forever - both in the same breath. 4. You need to believe in it, and truly love it. Frankly, a PhD wasn't going to sky-rocket her career, as she was retiring. She had had a long career, and wanted to retire on time and in peace. Except for some pension benefits, a PhD technically served no purpose. Yet, she persevered and put in 100% in each and every task related to her PhD (down to the last full stop) right till the end. She stayed faithful to her subject, her work, and her deadlines. She really felt for the topic/issue she had chosen and genuinely wanted to address it. It was not a degree, it was her mission. Her conscience was motivated. If this would not be the case, I am fairly certain all the pressures would have gotten the better of her......As I take baby steps towards my PhD, I realise I am no genius either. Intelligent and articulate, yes, but clearly not a genius. Yet, I have an extraordinary example in front of me, which shifts my focus from being a genius to inculcating aspects like a strong foundation, focus, flexibility, and deep belief in my subject of choice within my character before I embark on the journey. I hope her story helps you take further steps as well.