 Gauri NoolkarThe Fall of Constantinople.In 1453, the Ottomans captured Constantinople (Istanbul) which was the capital of the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire. This single event became so significant that it dramatically changed the course of history, and had its effects for centuries to come, some of which prevail to this day. The main reason for the importance of Constantinople was (and is) its strategic location - connecting the regions and cultures Europe, Middle East and rest of Asia. The fall of Constantinople to the Ottomans led to the following -1. The end of the Roman Empire.By seizing Constantinople, the Ottomans ended the Roman Empire which had lasted well over a millennium.2. The Renaissance.With the fall of Constantinople, several scholars, artists, thinkers and craftsmen fled to Europe. With them, they took arts, sciences, and philosophies from the Greeks, Arabs, Persians, Indians, Chinese etc., all of which had come to find a place in Constantinople due to its prime location on all the major trade routes of those times. These refugees and all the skills and knowledge they had acquired from the Eastern cultures contributed vitally to the European Renaissance which took birth and flourished soon after.3. Closing (and opening) of trade routes.All the major trade routes which linked Asia and Europe passed through Constantinople. Once the Ottomans took over, they blocked these trade routes, causing Europe to choke economically. This led to European powers and merchants investing earnestly in looking for alternate routes, especially sea routes, to reach India, China, and the Far East. This alone had multiple and far reaching impacts on the world, as they finally did find them. The quest for Asian markets significantly improved Europeans' (and ultimately, mankind's) understanding of geography, navigation, cartography, marine biodiversity, oceanography and even astronomy.4. The discovery of America.Everyone knows the famous story of how Columbus set out to find India and found himself on the American continent itself. The discovery of America made phenomenal changes in the Old world, and had profound impacts on the people, culture, economy and politics of Europe, and eventually, the world as it was then.5. Colonialism.The discovery of America, and later, of sea routes to India, China and the rest of Asia led to a mad rush of acquiring colonies and setting up empires in Europe. Investing in the search for trade routes made European navies stronger. Trade improved and brought prosperity as new markets were found. European powers began scrambling across the globe to capture land and markets in the Americas, Africa, and Asia. Initially as traders, they started establishing colonies to secure markets and revenues, but in the due course of time, they succeeded in reducing local powers to the status of vassals of various European empires. The wealth which had prevailed in these colonies for centuries now began to drain into Europe. Europeans not only became rich, but also powerful. Old civilisations in Asia, Africa and the Middle East, meanwhile, saw a decline in their power and prosperity.In many ways, the fall of Constantinople led to major shifts in global powers and flow of riches. It intellectually revitalised a whole continent, and led to the discovery of two more. It impacted religions and old civilisations, and left its effects on many countries and cultures, some of which linger to this day.