 Gauri NoolkarI'll try to answer this with my own example.I got married at a very, very beautiful beach in a small, picturesque Maharashtrian village named Anjarle. The sun was out, the breeze was lovely, the sea clean and blue. Guests were few but fun, and food was delicious.do you spot the sea?To be honest, the idea of getting married at Anjarle was a decision which was not very popular at the beginning. It raised a lot of eyebrows and arguments, and if it weren't for my husband's determination, I would have found it extremely difficult to convince a whole bunch of people to let us tie the knot there.Why Anjarle? There are a bunch of reasons, several of them extremely personal, but then so is marriage. Many of these reasons you might not connect with them, but the ones that appeal to you - they can help you determine where you want to take your first step into a life of love and companionship.1. Go back to your roots.Not mine, but definitely my husband's. My husband's maternal grandfather was born and grew up in this village before he left for Pune for education and Vidarbha for his career. My husband has childhood memories of this place, and it holds a special tug at his heart. It is also located in his native region Konkan (as he is a Konkanastha), and means a lot to him culturally.Legacy, history, cultural roots are considered laughable and irrelevant things today. But dig a bit deep and you will find a connection you cannot resist. We did that, and it led us to Anjarle.2. Go back to nature.We are no wildlife enthusiasts or environmental activists, but we love trees, flowers, clean air, sun, sand, and sea. We absolutely adore the red soil of Konkan, the banana and coconut plantations, and the way small paths meander and end abruptly in the Arabian sea. Opting for the Vedic rituals of marriage, we also looked to include the five elements of nature - the panchamahabhutas - in our wedding. The open sky (akash), the clean air (vayu), the holy yajna (agni), the sea (jal), and the red soil of Anjarle (prithvi) were direct participants in the ceremony.The philosophical bit apart, simply going back to clean air, the sea roaring in the distance, the birds twittering on trees, the sweet smell of acacia nuts and bananas, the quiet sunshine pouring through plantations, and the slowing down of time can do wonders. Crowded marriage halls overflowing with gaudy lights and noise, overlooking gutters and traffic jams, and smelling of smoke and pollution hold no merit in front of nature's beauty.3. Go back to people.Ever winced at the overflowing crowds at marriages and the forced smiles in front of the camera? We did, and we wanted to avoid those. So we simply invited people who made us smile. The advantage of the venue was that it couldn't hold too many people, and that made us think hard about all the people in our life and prioritize. Turned it, they prioritized us as well, and readily put in 16 hours of travel to a rural place with no complaints. They helped with the ceremony, they danced and sang and laughed, they loved eating at the beach, and now, about 8 months later, they still remember our wedding and the venue with a wide smile. Weddings in India are never about individuals, they are about family and friends. Isn't it time then that our weddings made them happy?4. Go back to simplicity.Our combined cost of the wedding (yes, we documented pretty much every penny spent) is not even half of what just one party would spend. Hell, the combined cost of all our wedding costumes would barely buy a saree in a mainstream Indian wedding (yes, I am actually happy that my wedding saree is not at all expensive). We spent instead on the comfort of our friends and family, on food, and on helping the local economy - and we did not spend much.The wedding was no grand affair, but it was comfortable and fun, and a big reason for that was the venue. It was so inexpensive! Wedding facilities in city charge us wayyyy higher than necessary, and most facilities are grossly overpriced. I am aware that it is a symbol of prosperity to 'show' how much you can spend on your saree or the jewellery or the food, but frankly, we don't care much about it. The important part is to get good returns for every penny spent.5. Go back to food - your food.Being the foodies we are, the most important part of the wedding (any wedding) for us is food. It was extremely important to us to have purely Marathi food, cooked by Marathis, served the Marathi way. We were tired of the paneer makhanwalas and biryanis served at Marathi weddings, and even though we love Punjabi food (and Punjabis), we are just... not Punjabis.We Indians are fortunate to inherit such a stunning culinary culture, and while pizzas and pastas are always welcome, exploring one's local and historical food is an experience indescribable in words. It can only be relished and lived and relived. And what better occasion than a wedding to do that?So yes, that's it - we got married at a place which gave us a beautiful blend of our five coveted aspects - roots, nature, people, simplicity, and food. We could have hunted and found more similar places, but this one just appealed to us instantly. When it comes to matters of the heart, we felt, the heart is the best judge, after all.I am sure you know a place which preserves your roots in its memory. Which is naturally beautiful and simple, and which calms your mind. Which welcomes your loved ones with grace and affection, and stays in their mind long after you are married. Which is kind to your pocket, and generous to your palate.You do, don't you? Get married there.