 Gauri NoolkarIt is difficult to find common weaknesses and strengths in such a large and diverse population; what applies to one community might be irrelevant to another. Yet, it is not impossible, thanks to history, religion and culture, to observe certain characteristics which appear in the same form, more or less, across the subcontinent.My experience with various sub-sets of the Indian community has led me to conclude that no intrinsic characteristic can be perfectly labelled as a strength or a weakness; rather, the characteristics function as a double edged sword. Whether it weakens you or fortifies you completely depends on your situation and you.1. Resilience!... Compromise.The average Indian prefers compromise to confrontation, and consequently, adjusts a lot with any given situation. The result is a society which survives somehow through thick and thin - and indeed, the society has survived numerous natural disasters, invasions, conflicts and other tragedies, and it still manages to survive and flourish in various degrees. The adjusting and resilient nature of Indians is also seen in their presence abroad - most countries which harbour Indian communities see Indians as a peaceful, non-aggressive community in their midst.This means that confrontation is an Indian's weakness, which one can see easily in the way he puts up with social evils, corruption and corrupt politicians, poor infrastructure, low level of development, low quality of materialistic, social and personal life, and on a global scale, an international underrating of his country's culture, prowess and position. We do not confront the problem; we adjust with it.2. Collectivism!... Suffocation.Indians are collectivists by nature. We tend to hold our friends close to us, and families even closer. Beyond individual bonds, we take our castes, religions, communities, states and regions rather seriously. Even when we go abroad, we involuntarily seek a face which belongs to any or all of our multiple identities. 'Contacts' are important, because we commonly help people we are related to (or our friends or relatives are related to) to climb up the ladder. We mourn and celebrate and solve together. Many services which are professionally provided in the West are an intrinsic part of family and social life in India.This means that individualism is a neglected aspect in India, and the inability to accept individualism, a weakness. Until very recently, Indians did not have the concept of 'private space'. Even today, say "I need my space" to an average, elderly Indian, and he will give you a genuine WTF? look. The logic is simple: the herd takes care of every aspect of your life, and you follow, unquestioningly, in return. Blending in is an unsaid, but a universally hailed virtue among Indians. Be different, even in thought, and suffer. The society suffers too - in terms of growing unhappiness, hypocrisy, dishonesty, and lack of freedom to release individual potential - but it rarely, rather never, notices.3. Culture!... Crutches.Yes, we have an absolutely fantastic culture, definitely one to revel in and to be proud of. Many Indians (including me) consider themselves lucky to have been born and brought up in this colourful, vibrant, diverse, long standing culture, and cannot ask for a better culture to be born in. Yet, this 'culture' is what keeps many of us from opening our minds - we simply don't want to accept anything else. An equal number, at the same time, will assert that no matter what goes wrong here, the culture never will. This attitude reminds me of a monologue in the film Swades, where the lead character explains how Indians resort to the crutches of culture each time they see their society and country failing in many other aspects. We are allowing culture to overrule other equally or even more important aspects, and we are not yet able to overcome that.4. Abundance!... Curse.Indians are blessed with a land rich with natural resources - plenty of sweet, fresh water, stunning flora and fauna, fertile soil, amazing geography and rich minerals. These resources were precisely why the subcontinent and its culture flourished for millennia. They were instrumental in developing Indian food, attire, festivals, art, literature and history. The abundance of resources and the largely pleasant climate also contributed to extremely habitable conditions and consequently a healthy and growing population.The same abundance (and easy availability) has also contributed to a population explosion, and more importantly, a distinct lack of industriousness among the majority of the population. Despite the strain on resources, basic necessities have been more or less easy to fulfil, lapsing the majority of the society in a lax attitude. Efficiency in resource utilisation is not a priority, simply because there is abundance. This can be seen in how we (mis)manage our water, land, food, forests, and whatever we get from nature (including time) - there's always enough (and when there isn't? Refer to point 1.).I am sure there will be a generic concept explaining how every characteristic of any individual/society/country can be both, a strength as well as a weakness. However, the sheer larger-than-life dimensions of India and Indian society deem India not as just an example of that concept, but as its extraordinary personification.