 My grandparents were disgusted with me when my first, second, and third girlfriends were Catholics.What do they cook? my grandmother asked.Cooking being the great differentiator in religion. She even said, Goulash? Like it was a curse.Many years later, after a lot of grief, I sat in St. Patricks in NYC, praying for money. please God, make my life better by giving me money.It didnt matter to me that it was a church. I was so scared I didnt know what to do.I would do anything, even pray to a god I didnt believe in, in a house of worship that I didnt feel welcome in, and asking for something that prayer was never intended for.Someone asked me yesterday. what do you feel strongly about?I said, nothing.He said thats a strong response. Dont you worry about death?I said, Why waste any part of today worrying about something that will happen later?Today Pope Francis arrives at St. Patricks in NYC. My guess is his motives will be loftier than mine. But I dont know. Maybe he wants money also.So I did some research. God or not, religion or not, Catholic or not, I try to learn from everyone.Heres what I love about Pope Francis on this holiest of Jewish holidays, Yom Kippur. And I dont believe in the sanctity of either.A) HE LIVES IN A STUDIOWhen Pope Francis traveled to the Vatican for his inauguration he stayed in a hotel that he paid for himself.And rather than move into the lavish 12-bedroom residence all prior popes live in, he chose a small studio with no staff.Rather than mimic him, its interesting to just ask why? and think about it.What is the example he wants to live by?B) CUBAPope Francis wrote letters to Barack Obama and Raul Castro, encouraging them to get together.Thats why we now have relations one again with Cuba, after 50 years.Biologically were one species. But politically, for thousands of years weve divided up by false and artificial borders.Imagine a world with no borders. Where trade and innovation flourishes. Where friendship and kindness can transcend ethnic and religious differences.A world with no more arguing on daytime talk shows.C) HE TOOK A SELFIESee the photo. A bunch of teenagers approached him. Asked him for a photo. And they took a selfie.He doesnt put himself on a pedestal (he drives a Kia instead of the previous popemobile). He wants to show that we all have the potential for direct happiness.During the time of Jesus, there was no Pope obviously.In fact, Jesus said, The kingdom of God is within you.Jesus was speaking to the Jewish layman of the time. But now he might even say, the choice for freedom is within you, and not anyone else.And thats why the Pope takes a selfie.Quote from him: Depicting the Pope as a sort of Superman, a star, is OFFENSIVE to me. The pope is a man who laughs, cries, sleeps calmly and has friends like everyone else. A normal person.D) HE MAKES PHONE CALLSTwo years ago, a young woman was pressured by her husband to have an abortion. She said, no, and got divorced.She was depressed. She wrote the Pope.A few weeks later the phone rang. She picked it up.Hello, the other side said, its Pope Francis. He comforted her and then baptized the newborn when it was born.He regularly makes calls to the people who write him, shedding the layers of bureaucracy that have existed for almost 2000 years in the Vatican.How often we forget the immense benefits a simple touch makes.The most impressive display of beauty is not the Sistine Chapel, with God reaching to grasp the first man but a man reaching out to touch a single woman who needed help.How many of us do that simple act, the creation of art and beauty, every day? I dont. But I should.D) HE HATES THE NEWSThe media only writes about the sinners and the scandals, but thats normal, because a tree that falls makes more noise than a forest that grows.The media sells subscriptions. But every day we have a choice. To focus on what is growing in our lives, or the negativity and fear that try to bring us down.Another quote: How can it be that it is not a news item when an elderly homeless person dies of exposure but it is news when the stock market loses two points?E) THE INSIGNIFICANCE OF MANThere are something like 8 million species on Earth. We always think of ourselves as somehow king of the food chain.Maybe we are and maybe we arent. After all, we made the definition of the phrase food chain so why not make ourselves king of it.Certainly many species are not even aware of us.Nor is it so great that we are supposedly, intelligent. How many high IQ people are truly happy and free and live every day with well-being.Francis quote: No one can grow if he does not accept his smallness.F) HE TEACHES PEOPLE TO