 The way to have good ideas is to get close to killing yourself. Its like weightlifting. When you lift slightly more than you can handle, you get stronger.In life, when the gun is to your head, you either figure it out, or you die.When you cut yourself open, you bleed ideas. If youre broke and close to death, you have to start coming up with ideas.If you destroy your life, you need to come up with ideas to rebuild it.The only time Ive been FORCED to have good ideas is when I was up against the wall. My life insurance policy was like a gun to my head: Come up with good ideas OR ELSE your kids get your life insurance!At an airport when I realized a business I had been working on for four years was worthless.Or when I was sitting in the dark at three in the morning in the living room of the house I was going bankrupt and losing my home, my brain figuring out how to die without anyone knowing it was planned.Or when I was getting a divorce and I was lonely and afraid I wouldnt make any money again or I wouldnt meet anyone again. Or my kids would hate me. Or my friends would be disgusted by me.The problem is this: youre NOT in a state of panic most of the time. States of panic are special and have to be revered. Think about the times in your life that you remember  its exactly those moments when you hit bottom and were forced to come up with ideas, to get stronger, to connect with some inner force inside you with the outer force.This is why its important NOW to strengthen that connection to that idea force inside of you. This post is about HOW.Nothing you ever thought of before amounted to anything  thats why you are exactly where you are at that moment of hitting bottom. Because all of your billions of thoughts have led you to right there. You cant trust the old style of thinking anymore. They came, they saw, they lost.You have to come up with a new way of thinking. A new way of having ideas. A new ways of interacting with the outside universe.Youre in crisis. Time to change. Time to become an IDEA MACHINE.People know what runners high is. Its when you are running for a long time, at the point of exhaustion, and then something kicks in and gives you a second wind.400,000 years ago people didnt jog for exercise. They didnt even have jogging shorts. Or sneakers.400,000 years ago people need to eat and live. And either youre running to catch a prey, or you are running from a lion. Youre the prey! And you need that second wind in both cases or you DIE.The same thing happens in the brain. When you are about to die, a second wind kicks in. Ideas, experiences, opportunity, and probably hidden forces and neurochemicals we dont understand.But you cant get runners high unless youre ALREADY in good shape. Unless you are already able to run long distances.This is why its important to exercise the idea muscle right now. If your idea muscle atrophies, then even at your lowest point you wont have any ideas.How long does it take this muscle to atrophy? The same as any other muscle in your body: just two weeks without having any ideas. Atrophied.If you lie down in a bed for two weeks and dont move your legs you will need physical therapy to walk again.Many people need idea therapy. Not so that they can come up with great ideas right this second (although maybe you will) but so that people can come up with ideas when they need them: when their car is stuck, when their house blows up, when they are fired from their job, when their spouse betrays them, when they go bankrupt or lose a big customer, or lose a client, or go out of business, or get sick.IDEAS ARE THE CURRENCY OF LIFE. Not money. Money gets depleted until you go broke. But good ideas buy you good experiences, buy you better ideas, buy you better experiences, buy you more time, save your life. Financial wealth is a side effect of the runners high of your idea muscle.Whoah! That was a big intro. Depending on where I post this, some people will write tl;dr which I had to look up and it means too long, didnt read. I encourage those people to stop reading here and save yourself the trouble. Its ok. Im not mad at you. Ill write smaller articles also. Ill even draw cartoons.Ive often written about the idea muscle as part of what I call my daily practice. Every day I have to check the box on physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual health.And I get a lot of questions about it so I will try and answer them here. If you have more questions, ask in the comments and I will answer.Sometimes people ask, did you only start coming up with ideas because you already had it made?ANSWER: I was on the floor crying because I was dead broke and dead lonely and had no prospects so thats why I had to do it.So now, 1000 words in (tl;dr) The Ultimate Cheat Sheet for Becoming an Idea MachineThe below is what I do and what works for me. If you have anything to add, please add them in the comments, I need all the help I can get.A) WHAT DO YOU MEAN  IDEA MACHINE?You will be like a superhero. Its almost a guaranteed membership in the Justice League of America.Every situation you are in, you will have a ton of ideas. Any question you are asked, you will know the response. Every meeting you are at, you will take the meeting so far out of the box youll be on another planet, if you are stuck on a desert highway  you will figure the way out, if you need to make money youll come up with 50 ideas to make money, and so on.After I started exercising the idea muscle, it was like a magic power had unleashed inside of me. Its ok if you dont believe me. Or maybe you think its bragging. There are many times when I dont have ideas. But thats when I stop practicing what I am about to advocate.Try it for yourself. Im not selling anything here. I have no reason for you to try this. I just want to share my exerience. Its like part of your brain is opened up and a constant flow of stuff, both good and bad, gets dropped in there.From where? I dont think about it and I dont care. But I use it.In early 2009 was one of those times when I desperately needed to do this. I was fulltime either trying to find a girlfriend or I was trying to start a business or both. I was also going broke in the stock market and losing my home (until I personally saved the entire stock market  see my book).Every night, Id have waffles for dinner and a bottle of wine and start writing ideas down. This is before I went paleo (no waffles!) and stopped drinking alcohol (five years sober!) and I was writing 10-20 of the most ludicrous ideas a day down.And you know what ? It worked.B) HOW DO I START EXERCISING THE IDEA MUSCLE?Take a waiters pad. Go to a local cafe. Maybe read an inspirational book for ten to twenty minutes. Then start writing down ideas. What ideas? Hold on a second. The key here is, write ten ideas.C) WHY A WAITERS PAD?A waiters pad fits in your pocket so you can easily pull it out to jot things down.A waiters pad is too small to write a whole novel or even a paragraph. In fact, its specifically made to make a list. And thats all you want, a list of ideas.A waiters pad is a great conversation starter if you are in a meeting. Someone at the meeting will eventually say, Ill take fries with my burger and everyone will laugh. You broke the ice and you stand out.A waiters pad is cheap. You can get about 100 for $10. This shows you are frugal and dont need those fancy moleskin pads to have a good idea.Oh, and I just found out another reason for a waiters pad while I was writing this. Someone with alcohol on his breath, a bottle in hand, looking like he could crush me with one hand, just came up to me in the cafe Im sitting at and asked for money. I held up my waiters pad and said, Can I take your order? and he said, OH! and he walked away.D) WHY TEN IDEAS?If I say, write down ten ideas for books you can write I bet you can easily write down four or five. I can write down four or five right now. But at six it starts to get hard. Hmmm, you think, what else can I come up with?This is when the brain is sweating.Note that when you exercise in the gym, your muscles dont start to build until you break a sweat. Your metabolism doesnt improve when you run until you sweat. Your body doesnt break down the old and build the new until it is sweating.The poisons and toxins in your body dont leave until you sweat.The same thing happens with the idea muscle. Somewhere around idea number six, your brain starts to sweat. This means its building up. Break through this. Come up with ten ideas.E) WHAT IF I JUST CANT COME UP WITH TEN IDEAS?Heres the magic trick: if you cant come up with ten ideas, come up with 20 ideas.F) BUT IF I CANT COME UP WITH TEN, HOW AM I SUPPOSED TO COME UP WITH 20?For the obvious reason. You are putting too much pressure on yourself. Perfectionism is the ENEMY of the idea muscle. Perfectionism is your brain trying to protect you from harm. From coming up with an idea that is embarassing and stupid and could cause you to suffer pain.We like the brain. But you have to shut the brain off to come up with ideas.The way you shut the brain off is by forcing it to come up with bad ideas.So lets say youve written 5 ideas for books and they are all pretty good. And now you are stuck. How can I top this brilliant list of five!?Well, lets come up with some bad ideas. Heres one: Dorothy and the Wizard of Wall Street. Dorothy is in a hurricane in Kansas and she lands right at the corner of Broadway and Wall Street in NYC and she has to make her way all the way down Wall Street in order to find The Wizard of Wall Street (Lloyd Blankfein, CEO of Goldman Sachs) in order to get home to Kansas. Instead, he offers her a job to be a high frequency trader instead.What a bad idea! Ok, now go onto the next 15 ideas. (and it anyone wants to buy the movie rights to The Wizard of Wall Street please contact Claudia.)G) HOW DO I KNOW IF AN IDEA IS A GOOD IDEA?You wont. You dont. You cant. You shouldnt.Lets say you come up with ten ideas a day. In a year you will have come up with 3650 ideas (no breaks on weekends by the way if you want to get good at this). Maybe more if you are trying to do 20 ideas a day.Its unlikely that you came up with 3,650 good ideas (after you become an idea machine your ratio goes up but probably in the beginning your ratio of bad ideas to good is around 1000:1).Dont put pressure on yourself to come up with good ideas. The key right now is just to have good ideas. When Tiger Woods is practicing he doesnt get disappointed himself if he doesnt hit a hole in one every shot. Youre just practicing here.Practice doesnt make perfect. But practice makes permanent. So that later on when you do need good ideas to save your life, you know you will be a fountain of them.When theres a tidal wave of good ideas coming out of you, you only need a cup of water out of that to quench your thirst.H) HOW DO I EXECUTE ON MY IDEAHeres what I do often when I am writing down ideas that I think I might want to act on.I divide my paper into two columns.On one column is the list of ideas. On the other column is the list of FIRST STEPS. Remember, only the first step. Because you have no idea where that first step will take you.Imagine you are driving 100 miles to your home late at night. You turn on your headlights so you can see in front of you. All you can see is about 30 feet in front of you but you know if you have the lights on the entire time, youll make it home safely, 100 miles away.Activating the idea machine is how you turn the lights on so you can get home. But you dont need to do any more than that.One of my favorite examples: Richard Branson didnt like the service on some airline he was flying. So he had an idea: Im going to start a new airline. How the heck can a magazine publisher start an airline from scratch with no money?His first step. He called Boeing to see if they had an airplane he could lease.No idea is so big you cant take the first step. If the first step seems to hard, make it simpler. And dont worry again if the idea is bad. This is all practice.For instance, lets say one of my ideas is: I want to be a brain surgeon. My first step: I would buy a bunch of books on how to do brain surgery. I dont have to plan my whole way through medical school.Wait!? Did I just say I would be a brain surgeon without a medical degree? No. I simply had a bad idea and the first step I would take if I was going to execute on that idea. And, yes, Im absolutely confident I would be able to do successful brain surgery before someone throws me in jail (hence, the bad idea aspect of it).A real life example: In 2006 I had ten ideas for websites I wanted to build. I knew how to program but didnt want to. So my first step was to find a site like Elance and then put the spec up and find programmers in India who could make the websites for me. One of them I paid $2000 to develop and sold for $10,000,000 9 months later. (this is not bragging  I went dead broke about 2 years after that).Nine of the ten ideas were BAD. But you only need one.I) BUT IF IM COMING UP WITH BUSINESS IDEAS, HOW DO I KNOW IF IM ON THE RIGHT TRACK?Theres no way to know in advance if a business idea is a good one. For instance, Google started around 1996 but didnt make a dime of money until around 2001.Heres my favorite example. A company called Odeo was a software company to help people set up podcasts. Since I do a podcast now this seems like a great idea to me. So they raised a ton of money from professional venture capitalists.Then one of their programmers started working on a side project. The side project got a little traction but not much. But the CEO of Odeo decided to switch strategies and go full force into the side project without having a clue if it would work.He felt bad since this isnt what the investors invested in. So he called up all of the investors, some of the best investors on the planet, and described the side