 the supermarket for a nickel.The key to an enriched life is having a burning desire. Wayne says that you must have an inner flame that no matter what goes before you it never flickers. This desire will enable you to seize every opportunity and create the life you want to live.Dont let someone tell you you cant do XYZ because theres no money in it. "People used to tell me 'Dont be a teacher, you cant make any money doing it.' ," he told me.But now he says hes a teacher with the largest classroom and the most amount of students. Every day, don't try to jump into another box. Just try to think a little bit more outside of the box society has put you in. E) ALWAYS TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR YOUR OWN LIFE. Wayne says that If something isnt working in his life he always tells himself It must be because I havent used enough determination or I havent been fearless enough or I havent been willing to do whatever it takes to make it happen. He never lets himself make any excuses. Because even if there is an external explanation, he cant control external factors. He can only control himself. F) LEAVE YOURSELF OPEN TO WHATEVER COMES UP On June 26, 2013, Wayne announced to his whole family that he was done writing books. He explained in great detail why he felt like that chapter of his life was done. Then on June 27th he started writing his next book! He had 100% intended to be done with books, but when he felt the urge to start writing that morning he embraced it. Rather than resisting and forcing his own plans, he accepted what came his way and let it direct him.G) WE ARE 'DOOMED' TO MAKE OUR CHOICES. There are somethings that we cant change. Our hardwiring, our bodies, our physical limitations. But within that framework we have the power to make choices. We choose how to use the resources we were given. Improving (or not improving) 1% a day is not even noticeable. That's why it's so easy for people to say, "nothing is happening" and inadvertently cost their lives 1% a day. Focus on that 1% improvement and everything changes. H) HOW TO FIND YOUR LIFE PURPOSE. You might be saying OK James, a bunch of these lessons are about following your purpose, but what if I dont know what mine is?! Wayne asked Whats the difference between good and God? The answer is o. Not just oh but zero. So whatever makes you feel good, whatever energizes you and lights you up inside, thats God. Thats God telling you that thats what you are meant to be doing.I don't believe that anyone has one purpose in life. And I don't like attaching any one religious philosophy to being content in life. But I like the idea of taking that "zero" and filling it up, if only for today, with something you love. I) SELL YOUR CLEVERNESS AND CREATE A SENSE OF AWE. Life is a gift. Dont let your ego get in the way of fully experiencing and appreciating it.When we were kids, we laughed and asked question. When we're adults, we cry and shout answers. Sometimes it's good to feel like a kid again, even at age 75.J) "THE #1 REGRET OF THE DYING IS 'I WISH I HAD THE COURAGE TO LIVE THE LIFE I WANTED RATHER THAN DOING WHAT OTHERS WANTED OF ME." Its hard living the life you want. It requires determination and strength and wisdom and fearlessness. And those are all difficult things. You only find the alternative waiting for you on your deathbed. K) ENLIGHTENMENTNot in a woo-woo, intangible way with no connection to the real world. Too many people try to scam with that word. "Enlightenment is all about improving your relationships. Being more loving with your spouse. Being more patient with your children. The quest for enlightenment is about improving your daily life in real ways."L) "THERE ARE 3 WAYS TO ENLIGHTENMENT" 1) Suffering: reflecting on pain in the past and learning from it; 2) Being present: learning from what youre going through right now; 3) Getting out front: being proactive rather than reactive.M) "THERE IS A SECRET GARDEN WITHIN US". No matter what happens in the world around us, no matter what happens to us, there is a place inside of you where you are 100% in control of what happens. "Maybe you cant control the terrible things that happen to you, but youre in control of how you respond." Youre in control of your feelings and your own happiness. Thats not to say that its not incredibly difficult, but the point is that NO ONE ELSE has the power over your mindset. "Inside your chest, you are sovereign."---I was sort of in a glow after the interview. I was excited. I felt like doing a podcast was the right thing. I wasn't sure until then. Maybe most of all I learned from one thing he said to me towards the end: "Are you willing to do whatever it takes to make the thing that excites you come true. Are you fearless?" I'll be honest: I don't know. Sometimes it's very hard. Sometimes crisis hits and you can't move. I think that's ok. Sometimes you have to take a rest to re-energize. But I have a faith that his final words to me are the trick: "Come from a place of compassion and love".