 look ever so slightly different than the micro-cultures that lived on the next? Darwin wondered. Why did uranium give off light? Marie Curie wondered. She wondered about it until it killed her. Why did Opera make Mozart tingle despite the acclaim he was receiving from the blander concertos popular at the time. Why do children ask why and when you answer they ask why again, and then again. When you take a subway in NYC it says "mind the gap". It's in the gaps of adults talking that you have to catch yourself and ask "Why?" "We just got divorced and then I moved to NYC," says one man to the other. "Why?" is what I always wonder. Why did you get divorced. Why did you pick NYC? It's none of my business. But a kid doesn't care. A kid asks Why?The Whys add up. The Whys add up on the search for passion. - FRIENDSHIPSA friend of mine is working on a TV show. I'm going to meet him later today to see how it's going. To be honest, I want to write an episode for his TV show. Just for the fun of it. I have ideas for stories. It was my list of ten ideas each day this week. It was fun. But most of all, I want to hear all the things he's learning by doing his TV show. And then I want to ask him about my own creative challenges. Friendships challenge each other. First we throw rocks at each other. But those rocks ignite the imagination of Jupiter and Saturn and time travel. Look at all of the arts and sciences: Steve Jobs started as friends with Steve Wozniak long before they made a dime. Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg. Jackson Pollack and Jasper Johns and Roy Lichtenstein and later Andy Warhol. The friendships that pushed each other to the next level. That pushed each other to compete and to play and to battle and to create. To create!- INTERESTSPierre and Marie Curie simply wanted to find out why a rock would glow. And then they fell in love and became adults. Benjamin Franklin flew a kite to discover electricity. Galileo was interested in finding out what would happen if a boulder and a feather flew off a tall building at the same time and then discovered the most useful scientific theories of all time. - HOPES AND DREAMSWhen I was a little kid I had a notebook. It will filled with "David likes Lorie because I saw him look at her." and "Joanne likes Bobby because she laughed at his joke." I wrote every day. I wrote a play about a moon that was a live. I wrote a story about Presidents. I wanted to write. I had dreams. But dreams and mortgages have a hard time staying in the same head. It's ok to be worried about the mortgage. But don't forget to have a little bit of hope. And to see what happens if you act on that daydream, even if just a second. - DRAWINGS AND DRUMSI asked for a drumset as a kid. But I never used it. But I did draw. I doodled all the time. I drew every day. Adults say, "I can't draw." Of course you can! Here's a crayon. Go! I bought a box of crayons (16 colors) the other day. I just doodled. I colored things in. Some of the colors went outside the lines. Just practice staying kid-like. Draw a face. I drew my wife. It looked nothing like her. So I turned her into a monster. It still looked nothing like her. So I ripped up the drawing and started again. Like a kid. - MOVEMENTWhen I was a kid I'd get home and jump on the bike (no helmet) and drove everywhere I could. I'd cross the highway! Hopefully my parents never saw me. I ran up and down the street. We played football on the cement, throwing each other down. Movement gets every neuron creating. Gets the body healthy. Gets the emotions roaring as you touch and tackle and daydream and breathe in the air with the sun burnt from the day about to die into a sunset. - CONFUSIONWhen I first moved to New York and I had my very first vacation, I had no money to go anywhere. I was stuck in the city. So I would walk around. I wandered into areas I had never been before. I was confused where I was. I was confused why other people were out at 10 in the morning. Why weren't they at their jobs? I wandered from confusion to confusion. Eventually, I started a project, "3am" trying to figure out why people were out at 3 in the morning on a Wednesday night. I was confused and wanted to know. When I do a podcast and someone gives the stock answer they give in every other answer, I get confused. "But didn't you cry when that company failed?" I want to know. What did you do? - SOCIAL INCOMPETENCEI try to learn how to small talk. But I'm not good at it. This is not a bad or good thing. I want to get better. But sometimes at a party with everyone laughing and having gun I feel alone and isolated. I try to figure my way out of that feeling of isolation. How can I have fun also? ---All of these things brings me back to those moments, both good and bad, when I was a kid. I practice being a kid. A kid laughs 300 times. An adult, on average...five. Sometimes I can go a week without laughing. Responsibilties, fear, loneliness, anxiety, regret, can weigh me down. I didn't have those as a kid. I try to laugh. I try to find things that make me align. As an adult you have to practice being a kid, letting that child peek out again. He or she wants to come out and play and see the world again. What's changed? The child wants to know!But guess what? The adults know. I have experience now. I've had the pills in the mouth. I've been divorced and lost two houses and lost a family. I've lost my money and been scared and lost a business and had people hate me and try to ruin me. I've had people I've loved betray me and reject me. I've had successes that came from hard work and from 100 hour work weeks I thought I would never survive but I learned persistence and I learned how to make it work. And I learned how to succeed and I learned how to survive failure. Some of the time. Experience mixed with childhood is a roller coaster. Is a playground. You swing as high as possible and experience knows you will come down safe. There's no one answer how to find your passion. But every day, give the child inside of you some exercise using the 10 ideas above. Mix that child with the experience you've learned over the years of fire and ice. You'll find your passion. Your passion will find you. And it's there, in that kiss of passion and you, in that kiss of your inner child and your outer adult, that you will find it. In the middle its there, torn asunder but ready to be put together and to come out and play.