 possible and going through a divorce. One time I looked at my bank account. I considered, once again, jumping out the window, or figuring out what drugs would anesthetize me long enough Id never have to think about my problems again. I lost my job. Nobody wanted to talk to me because I was bullish on the market and everyone thought I was crazy. Nobody called me. Nobody wanted me. Certainly nobody wanted to help me make money. They had their own concerns. I was trying to get other companies started but I just didnt have my health and priorities intact and as we will see later, those are critical for success. I was just as depressed as everyone else. And it wasnt just that the stock market was at a low. Thats too easy an excuse. The human race hasnt survived for 200,000 years just to be shattered by a little blip in capitalism. Wed all had a tough decade. We all suffered from post-societal traumatic stress syndrome. The first step was admitting it: Internet bust. 9/11. Corporate corruption at a scale never seen before. Housing bust. Financial crisis. Bailouts. Madoffs. On and on. It was rough. As a society we got afraid. Too afraid to move. So I did the only thing I could do. I woke up early one morning in early March and bought a bag of chocolates. Small Hershey chocolates, like you hand out on Halloween. At around 8am I stood outside the entrance of the New York Stock Exchange and started handing out chocolates to everyone walking inside. People would be staring at their feet like zombies as they walked in, but 100% of the time, they would stop, look up, take the chocolate, and they would smile. Chocolate releases phenylephylamine , the same hormone that is released when you fall in love. Suddenly, for a brief moment, everyone in the stock exchange was a little closer to falling in love. This made them less likely to be depressed, at least that day. This is not to say you should eat chocolate all the time. Youll get obese. Much better to just simply fall in love.But we were having a hard month/year/decade right then and everyone needed a break. Everyone needed a piece of chocolate at the beginning of the work-day. It was March 9. A Monday. The Friday before, the S&P closed the week at its lowest point in 13 years (and ever since). By the end of the week, the S&P was up nearly 75 points. By the end of the month, it was up more than 125 points. And its been going up ever since.I'm not trying to brag. I'm not trying to say how great it is that I saved the global economy. It's not bragging if it's true.