 THE 22 CRITICAL THINGS I'VE LEARNED FROM ELON MUSKI listened to every interview he ever did and compiled what I think are the most inspirational quotes to me. They may not be inspirational to you. Inspiration is somewhat of a risk: it takes you outside the world you once knew and introduces you to a new thought, person, idea, or something totally unexpected. So I wrote down the quotes and what I think I learned from them. Maybe as I think of them more I'll learn more. I don't know. Here are the inspirational quotes from Elon Musk that stuck with me: 1. If something is important enough, even if the odds are against you, you should still do it.I was thinking: what if it really is impossible. But Elon Musk then takes it to the next level always: "let's go to Mars". Or "let's make a billion dollar battery factory." So at the very least it's always worth exploring the delicious curvature of the impossible. 2. Going from PayPal, I thought: Well, what are some of the other problems that are likely to most affect the future of humanity? Not from the perspective, Whats the best way to make money?I've interviewed over 100 people now on my podcast. Each of the 100 have achieved amazing results in their life. That's a subjective opinion. "Amazing" to me. But none of them have done if for the money. I was talking to Coolio, for instance, who had the best selling song of 1995. He started writing lyrics every day in 1977. It took him 17 years to have a single hit. "Never do something for the money," Coolio told me. 3. (Physics is) a good framework for thinking.  Boil things down to their fundamental truths and reason up from there.My guess is he is not referring specifically to the science and theories of physics but the act of visualizing something, coming up with an idea or a theory of why it might be true, and then figuring out how to prove that theory. To me, thats what physics is. Since the rules are constantly changing, which is another fascinating aspect of physics. 4. The first step is to establish that something is possible; then probability will occur.I wonder about this. What's impossible? Maybe a time machine is too hard to figure out. But to make an electric car you can imagine first a hybrid car that has a trunk filled with very efficient batteries so you don't ever need the gas part. Then it becomes a function of probabilities versus possibilities. 5. Its OK to have your eggs in one basket as long as you control what happens to that basket.Many people think entrepreneurship is about risk. In fact, it's the opposite. Good entrepreneurs don't learn by failure (the popular "failure porn" all over the Internet). Good entrepreneurs learn by solving difficult problems. Elon Musk controlled his outcome with X . com not by destroying the competitor but by merging with it (paypal).  6. Persistence is very important. You should not give up unless you are forced to give up.I always think this is the magic equation: persistence + love = abundance. You have to love something enough to persist. You have to persist enough to deepen your love. And then abundance is the natural outcome. Not just for you but for everyone. Since wealth comes to those who create wealth for others. 7. You want to have a future where youre expecting things to be better, not one where youre expecting things to be worse.This is incredibly important. News reporters have zero qualifications to inform people and yet they are all doom and gloom to sell subscriptions. But entrepreneurs are the ones who imagine a better world and how to make the leap to get there. 8. It is a mistake to hire huge numbers of people to get a complicated job done. Numbers will never compensate for talent in getting the right answer (two people who dont know something are no better than one), will tend to slow down progress, and will make the task incredibly expensive.When I was running a software company, we always knew it would take one great programmer to solve a hard problem in one night versus 10 mediocre programmers taking a month to screw up a problem even worse. 9. If you go back a few hundred years, what we take for granted today would seem like magic  being able to talk to people over long distances, to transmit images, flying, accessing vast amounts of data like an oracle. These are all things that would have been considered magic a few hundred years ago.And now imagine what it will be like 300 years from now when people look back at today. "They had to actually 'connect' to an Internet then!" or "It took them 7 hours to get from NY to CA!" 10. My biggest mistake is probably weighing too much on someones talent and not someones personality. I think it matters whether someone has a good heart.I recently watched a company go from a billion in revenues to zero when a founder stole $90 million from the company. Integrity, humility, and doing your best is by far the most important consideration when evaluating whether to work for someone. 12. When I was in college, I wanted to be involved in things that would change the world. Now I am.I always wonder about the phrase "change the world". Can one person change another. Perhaps the most valuable starting point is to do everything