 Most non-fiction books are bad. And sometimes that's a great thing. It's because the writer spent his life getting GOOD at what he was writing about. He didn't spend his life being good at writing. He didn't spend his life typing. He ran a country. Or built a robot. Or discovered DNA or walked between the twin towers. He or She DID something. Something that changed lives. Something that went from his or her head out into the real world. I like reading billion-person books. Books, that if read widely, would change a billion lives. I like reading books where I feel my brain have an IQ orgasm. Like, I literally feel my IQ go up while reading the book. Before I give my list, I want to mention there are three kinds of non-fiction books: - BUSINESS CARD BOOKS: These are books like "How to be a leader". They establish the author as an expert. The author then uses this book to get speaking gigs or coaching or consulting gigs. These books usually suck. Don't read one. But nothing wrong with writing one. - BOOKS THAT SHOULD BE CHAPTERS: A publisher will see an article somewhere like, "12 ways to become smarter" and say, "that should be a book". Then the write mistakenly says, "ok" and he has to undergo the agony of changing something that was a perfectly good 2000 word article into a 60,000 word book. Those books suck. Don't read one. And DEFINITELY don't write one. Unless you want to waste a year of your life. I wasted 2004-2009 doing that. - BRAINGASM BOOKSHere's my top 10 list of braingasm books. Books that will raise your IQ between the time you start and the time you end. By the way, there are more than 10 of these books. This is just my TOP 10. Although not really in that order. It's hard for a small mind like mine to order these. "Mastery" by Robert GreeneThis book is like a curated version of 1000 biographies all under the guise, "how to become a master at what you love". "Bold" by Peter Diamondis and Steven KotlerBasically if you want to know the future, read this. Supplement it with "Abundance" by the same two and "Tomorrowland" by Steven Kotler" and even "The Rational Optimist" by Matt Ridley. I feel "Abundance" is like a sequel to "The Rational Optimist". So I'm giving you four books with one recommendation. "Outliers" by Malcolm GladwellGladwell is not the first person to come up with the 10,000 hour rule. Nor is he the first person to document what it takes to become the best in the world at something. But his stories are so great as he explains these deep concepts. How did the Beatles become the best? Why are professional hockey players born in January, February and March? And so on. "Where Good Ideas Come From" by Steven JohnsonAlso add to this: "How We Got to Now" by Steven Johnson. Basically: don't believe the myth of the lonely genius. Ideas come from a confluence of history, "the adjacent possible" specific