 me that he always made an audiobook. I thought that was a horrible idea, and told him so.But two things about audiobooks:He said, When people see you have an audiobook, they see your book as even more credible. It stands out from the average self-published book when you have an ebook, a print version, and an audiobook. Plus, the audio book is more expensive, so even though there are fewer sales, its decent money. By the way, if you self-publish, always do a print book at the very least. Even if 99% of your sales are going to be ebook.I asked the head of an ad agency what marketing tips he had for for my upcoming book. He said, first thing, Make an audiobook. For your kind of book, people will love listening to it while they drive into work.So Claudia, my wife who has been supportive of every aspect of this effort, set up her office in our house to be a mini-recording studio. I wrote to Tucker Max that I was going to make an audiobook. He wrote back:James, where are you doing the audio, and whos editing it? Please tell me you arent just doing it yourself with your Mac and a mic you bought online.We looked at our Mac and a mic that we had just bought online and decided to go to a professional studio. Tucker suggested John Marshall Media . They had done audiobooks ranging from President Clintons autobiography to the Harry Potter books to Freakonomics.It was a thoroughly annoying experience but was worth it.I felt uncomfortable just sitting there for eight hours reading words I had written. For one thing, it hurt. Reading for eight straight hours was killing my throat.Second, I didnt want to just read stories I had already written. So I did it totally unabridged and improvised quite a bit, making it somewhat original compared to the book.But the best reason for doing the audiobook is it forces you to really look at your writing and hear what works and what doesnt. I rewrote about 20% of the book after reading things that didnt quite sound right out loud.So, it was another round of edits (with the help of Nils) to improve the book, a process I never wouldve gone through if I hadnt done the audio version.8) Title.This deserves its own category. I had total control over the title. My first choice for the book was The Choose Yourself Era. But whenever anyone asked me to say the title I had trouble saying it. Era sounds like Error. One person asked me if it was going to a book about archaealogy. So somehow it wasnt working.So I picked ten titles that I liked, combined them with the cover and created Facebook ads that I sent out to all my friends and friends of friends in the US. Then I sat back and watched the click-thrus. After a few days and thousands of click-thrus I had my title.The Choose Yourself Era came in a distant 3rd place. Pick Yourself! was right above it in second place. And Choose Yourself! came in first by far.I then took the same Facebook approach to pick the subtitle and the final version of the cover.9) Marketing. I used Ryan Holidays company Brasscheck. Ryan was/is the head of marketing for American Apparel, and has marketed many bestsellers including books by Tim Ferriss (The Four Hour Chef), Robert Greene (Mastery), Tucker Max (I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell), and others.I had never before used an outside agency, always trusting either my own basic platform or a publisher. What Ryan provided was unbelievable. Between his rolodex and mine we scheduled about 60 podcasts, radio interviews, speaking engagements, and guest posts on popular blogs and websites.Additionally, other things that I would not have been able to coordinate: A reddit AMA that got over 3000 comments and probably close to a million views over the past month. His company created a slideshare presentation that became the most viewed slideshare on the site the week of the launch with over 300,000 views. My schedule the month after launch was non-stop marketing. I was burnt out by the end of the month.Other marketing ideas:I had become a fan of bitcoin. So I set up bitcoin.chooseyourself.us a month before I released the book and became the first book ever pre-released solely on bitcoin. Ryan then got several key media sources to cover this.I also wanted to market an offer I was making in the beginning of the book. My goal was not to necessarily make the most money but to make sure the message got out to as many people as possible.On the very first page of the book, before the editorial information and dedication, there is the offer.I offer to pay people back for the book if they could prove to me they both bought it and read it. Then I would pay them back completely for the book (losing money on each transaction because of the cut Amazon takes plus shipping). The idea was: I would be happy to give the book for free, but I know people dont value things they get for free. And I also know most people dont read the books they buy. Hence the offer.Ryan was successful at making sure that the offer itself was covered in various media outlets.Brasscheck also scripted the video trailer which was produced and animated by Simplifim. I describe the results of the marketing below.10) Foreign Rights. I found with my prior books that the traditional publishers would more or less wait for foreign publishers to call and then they would sell the rights and my split would be minimal.Typically the split was 50-50 but out of my 50 would come my agents split. I was competing with too many of the other authors in the publishers stable to get any attention from foreign publishers.Now I own all the rights to my book. Most people who self-publish arent thinking foreign rights. You still have to have someone who is going to be your advocate with the foreign publishers. So I got a foreign rights agency, 2 Seas Agency, to handle all of the foreign rights on a commission basis. They go to book conferences all over the world and have connections in each country.In June, the first month the book was out, Marleen Seegers from 2 Seas sold rights to: Brazil (USD 2500), China (USD 4300), Korea (USD 5000). She is currently in negotiations with publishers from ten other countries. The three mentioned above are where the contracts were finished blindingly fast.11) Other merchandise.Since I own the rights I can do whatever I want. Below in the Numbers section I describe a bundle I put together combining a hardcover version of the book with three earlier books plus some original writing that was sent out by an e-newsletter company that did all of the fulfillment and split the proceeds with me.With the help of The Social Pages and Litographs I also made a poster that is designed like the cover of the book when you look from afar but when you get close to it you see clearly all 67,000 words of the book. Im also making that into a shirt. What will I do with it? I have no idea. But its fun and I wanted to do it.In the below photos you can see the far away version and the words when you are standing about an inch from the poster.12) The numbers. First off, what were my prior numbers.Here are my advances on my first mainstream-published five books in order: $5,000, $7500, $30,000, $100,000, and $30,000. Advances are coming down quickly!My first book made back my advance and with about a 10% royalty I probably made another few thousand dollars on it. None of my other books came close to making back their advances.On my first five self-published books I dont have all the numbers but I gave an enormous number of books away for free in order to build up my readership. Almost all of those books I produced for free but my revenues were minimal even though I had many readers for them.In the first week Choose Yourself! was out I got onto the WSJ Bestsellers List with about 10,000 copies sold. To hit the New York Times bestseller list I can tell you anecdotally (and it depends on the week) that you need about 2500  3000 copies sold in your first week. I couldnt get on the NYT Bestsellers List because they do not look at books that do not appear in bookstores. Im not in any bookstores at the moment although Im working on ways that can change. Suffice to say I wouldve hit that list as well as the WSJ list.Altogether in the first month I sold 44,294 copies between my paperback, audio, ebook, and even hardcover versions. The hardcover version was sold via an email newsletter run by Porter Stansberry that bundled the hardcover with 3 free versions of my past books plus an original report written by me. He split the proceeds 50-50 with me after the cost of the hardcover was recovered. I sold about 20,000 through this method in the first month. Of the remaining 24,000, close to 50% was Kindle, 45% was Createspace and 5% was Audible. On all the Amazon Kindle sales the royalty is 70% of the $4.99 cost. On the Audible version the royalty is approximately 52%, give or take a few percent. On Createspace the royalty given my pricing was about 26%.The total cost of everything described above was $31,000, not counting traveling I did for the marketing and other marketing costs involved in building my platform.Related posts:33 Unusual Tips to Being a Better Writer Why and How I Self-Published a Book 