 In the mid-90s I had an idea that lasted about the amount of time it takes to drink two beers. I say this because I had the idea at a bar and it was quickly squashed by the two friends I was with.I wanted to create a reality cable channel. All reality TV all the time. Reality TV was just beginning. MTVs The Real World and HBOs Taxicab Confessions were the only real two successful examples at that point. The day before, I had gone to a seminar at the Museum of Television and Radio about The Real World. All of the guests of my favorite season (but not Puck or Pedro, who was dead) were there answering questions. I felt reality TV was a cheap way to produce TV and people would get obsessed by it, particularly if sex was involved.What a dumb idea, a friend said. Theres only so much reality. Which strikes me as funny now.The other guy said, youre not a big TV company. How will you get the cable companies to go for the idea?So I never thought about it again. I put up a fence around the idea and decided I would not be able to leap over that fence to execute on the idea. Now EVERY television channel is basically all reality all the time, or at least 50% of the time.My real problem was: I didnt have confidence. And I didnt know what the next step was. In retrospect, I shouldve written down my idea, written down ten ideas for possible shows to launch with, and started pitching TV companies to get someone to partner with me on it. That wouldve been simple and not taken too much time before there was some payoff.Note: what might be too big for you (thinking of the next step) might not be too big for someone else (they might easily know, and not be afriad of, what the next step is).Quick example:I was first asked a similar question a few months ago and I replied that an idea would be too big if you cant think of the next step. I then added that if I wanted to start an airline with more comfortable seats and internet access and better food and cheaper prices I might have a hard time because even if it were a good idea I wouldnt know what to do next.Then I read about Richard Branson.When Virgin Records was making him a tidy profit of about $15 million a year he decided there should be a more comfortable cross-atlantic airline. What the hell did he know about making an airline? Nothing. Not only that, airlines are a difficult business. Three of the best investors in history: Howard Hughes, Carl Icahn, and Warren Buffett have crashed and burned buying airlines. Warren Buffett once said something like that the best way to end up with a billion is to start with two and buy an airline. And yet Branson came up with the idea and that very day he called up Boeing to find out what it would cost to lease an airplane. He made a great deal with them that if it didnt work out he could return the airplane. Else if it did work out, hed be a great customer for them. Im assuming he made a similar call to Airbus and took the best deal.He then probably found out what it cost to lease space in the various airports he would need to use. They were probably happy with more business. And then, Im guessing, he hired some pilots, some ground crew, and put an ad in the paper advertising his new air routes and he was in business.Virgin Air is successful (I just flew it from NY to LA a few weeks ago) and has since spun off Virgin Galactic. So this scruffy kid who started a record label is now sending rocketships into space.Note the important thing: the day he came up with the idea he also called Boeing and got a plane from them. So he took the next step. For me, I wouldve convinced myself that the next step in starting an airline was too big for me. And then it wouldve been too big for me. This is not quite the same as the secret  the idea that our thoughts can create our reality butthey do. If you think you can do something, if you have confidence, if you have creativity (developed by building up your idea muscle discussed in many other posts here), the big ideas become smaller and smaller. Until there is no idea too big. Nothing you cant at least attempt.On a much smaller scale I can state a few examples of my own but Ill stick with one. I had an idea to create a financial news site that didnt have any news but was just a site made up of various methods to come up with investment ideas. In particular, by piggybacking the investment ideas of the greatest investors. I spec-ed out the site the morning I had the idea, I put the spec on Freelancer, several developers contacted me with prices, and I hired one of them. Within a few weeks, version 1.0 of the site was released, Stockpickr. 7 months later and millions of unique users later, I sold the profitable company to The Street.So the question is not necessarily, when is an idea too big its: how do I make all ideas smaller and achievable. You do this by developing the idea muscle.One of the ways to build the idea muscle is by writing down 10 ideas a day.About what?About anything. It doesnt matter if they are business ideas, book ideas, ideas for surprising your spouse in bed, ideas for what you should do if you are arrested for shoplifting, ideas for how to make a better tennis racquet, anything you want. The key is that it has to be ten or more.You want your brain to sweat.You want your brain to hurt to come up with more and more ideas. One possibility right now is to list ten ideas that are too big for me and what the next steps might be. For instance, one idea might be launch solar panels into outerspace to more efficiently generate solar power. Another idea might be, genetically engineer a microbe that sucks the salt out of water. I have no idea if thats even possible. Another idea might be, within one year I am going to write a book and give away a million copies for free.The first step would be to write the book. Then maybe I can crowd fund on kickstarter to give the book away for free. OR, I can maybe print up nano-sized copies of the book so that you can only read it with a microscope but it would only cost me a couple of sheets of paper to print up a million copies. And so on. With the solar panels, I can call up SpaceX and see how much it would cost to rent space. For the microbe that desalinatesI have no idea. Can you help me?You dont ever have to look at these ideas again. The purpose is not to come up with a good idea. The purpose is to have 1000s of ideas over time. To develop the idea muscle and turn it into a machine.Here are some FAQ's about becoming an idea machine:A) Do you have a theme each day for your ideas?Yes. As a simple example it might be 10 businesses I can start? Or 10 books I can write or 10 chapters I can write for a book on quality parenting (which would obviously be a fiction book).A theme is like a target, and knowing that you can come up with 10 decent ideas gets you closer and closer to hitting the bullseye on the target.B) What if I cant come up with 10 ideas?Heres the key: the first three ideas are always easy. The next two are a little harder, and for me, I find that ideas 5-10 make my brain literally sweat. It almost hurts.Ideas, art, business, life is all about connecting the dots of one area of your life with the dots in other areas of your life.Doing this directly translates into biologically building up the neural pathways between collections of neurons in your brain.This is what changes you from becoming a person with the occasional idea, to a creative person, to an idea machine. You become the one-eyed king in the land of the blind.D) My idea muscle has atrophied. How long will it take to become an idea machine?If you come up with 10 ideas a day for 180 days Im pretty convinced based on what Ive seen from 100s or 1000s of others then you will be a full force idea machine.To read the other FAQ's, click here.