 do that plus learn basic strategy and then you will be among the best in the world. But not THE best. I used to tape word lists to my kid's stroller when she was born. At night she couldn't sleep unless I was running full speed with the stroller. But that's ok, I was memorizing stems. But now let's cut the 1000 hours even more. If you combine two areas of interest then you don't even need 1000 hours. Let's say I'm interested in computer programming and the stock market. I can learn basic programming. I can learn the basics of the stock market. And then I can program patterns in the stock market ("What happens if the market falls 5 days in a row") and if I program a few hundred patterns I can see if any results happen that are statistically significant. This won't make one a great trader. But it's a start. If you intersect two areas, it will be much faster to be in the top 1% of the two areas because other people will also have to pick those exact two areas. Maybe then you need only 500 hours of practice with intent instead of 10,000 hours. Damn, I'm going to have K. Anders Ericsson on my podcast to see if I'm right. HABITS12. Sleep 8-9 hours a day. This one is so obvious it's ridiculous. At night you are tired so your brain feels you're druggy and your movements are slow and sluggish. When you sleep, BAM! Your brain is re-energized and you have new energy that can last you an entire day. There is a ton of research on this. For instance, the average professional violinist sleeps 8.6 hours a day. I've worked with people who tell me they only need three hours a day. Then they also tell me they are bipolar. If you are too busy to sleep 8 hours a day then find micro-habits you can stop so you can sleep more Else you will die earlier. Like...don't watch TV at night. Get blackout drapes. No screen time after 7pm. Don't eat too late. Whatever you can do. You have to sleep 8-9 hours a day. 13. You're the average of the 5 people you spend your time with. If you want to be funny, spend time with funny people. If you want to be a criminal, spend time with other criminals. If you want to be stabbed in the back at work, spend time with people who gossip a lot. (I hope you are not the average of these five people)14. Don't Eat Sugar. 15. Move. 16. Small CelebrationsIf you only wait for something big to happen ("I made a MILLION dollars!") you're going to be waiting for long periods of time before you can celebrate. Find more things to celebrate. Celebration is fun. And there's some brain research that blah blah blah when you celebrate. Today I will celebrate that Claudia and I had an argument over the weekend but we made up. 17. Write 10 Ideas a DayAgain, advice is autobiography. Doing this habit has changed my life every six months. For instance, in the past six months, I finished a book. I started a new podcast (both are coming out September 1), I started a high-level advisory service for people interested in the economy (coming out September 15), I gave a talk in London I never expected to give and I met many new friends. 18. Be grateful.Blah. This is a boring one but it actually works very well. The other day I was very upset about something. Claudia and I were in an argument. It's hard to be married for long periods of time without being in an argument. Maybe Jesus can do it. But I can't. And when I'm in an argument with Claudia, it's the worst thing in the world. I feel all closed up. Like I can't breathe. So it was hard to feel grateful but I still tried. Maybe that helped get me out of my cave. Bit by bit I found myself more grateful for things. And then I was able to crawl out of my cave. 19. HygieneI was talking to Tucker Max and Dr. Geoff Miller, THE smartest evolutionary psychologist on the planet. They said that many people ("mostly men") fail because they don't clean themselves. Tucker said to me, "James, just go to a hair salon, throw down 200 bucks, and tell them to make you look good." (I'm fine with how I look actually). I don't think I'll do that. But showering, brushing teeth a few times a day, changing clothes, cutting finger nails, washing face...all of this seems obvious. But sometimes I spend days in a house by myself and forget to do these things. I know that sounds gross. But it feels good when I focus on hygiene. 20. Treat Everyone Like You Are Their Mother. A friend of mine says that when she is around the Dalai Lama "it feels like he is treating everyone like he is their mother". So this seems like a good habit to have. When I think of someone I randomly meet and I change my mindset to pretend like I am their mother, I become more concerned for their happiness, their comfort, their careers, their ability to find people they love. I judge less. I treat them with honesty and I am more open to them. This one thing has changed my life. When I'm walking in the street, though, I have to be careful not to smile at too many young boys. 21. HonestyNot radical honesty, which is bullshit. Just because you want to have sex with your girlfriend's sister doesn't mean you have to broadcast it everywhere. Just: if you say something, then it's either true to you, or you live up to what you say. This maybe is the most important habit. Honesty defines your character. And character defines your future. People want to deal with honest people more than they want to deal with smart people. So honest people get more opportunities for money and sex and fun things. What can be better? META-HABITSI forget what number I'm on and I don't feel like scrolling up. I don't have a mouse and I hate using the mousepad. I'm going to make up a number. 25. Oh, why do we need meta-habits? Because habits are hard. So you need habits to get habits. I call them meta-habits. 26. By the way, I made #25 an entire meta-habit because simply being aware that meta-habits are important is a meta-habit. 1% a day. The problem with this meta-habit is that it's not noticeable. If I want to get 1% a day better at baseball it's almost impossible to notice. Nothing might change from day to day, as far as I can tell. So you have to be gentle on ourself. And just have the mindset that the goal is improvement, not a number. Just 1% a day improvement. You can also choose to decrease 1% a day. That's what most people do. Ahh, I can't write today, so I'm going to read the news and eat junk food. One day won't matter. Oh, but it does. It does! 28. Kindness. Do it and reward it. Punish non-kindness. If you are kind, people will want to be around you. If you reward it (by smiling, or saying something nice) then people will want to be kind to you. If someone is not kind to me, then I back off. No matter who they are. I don't even let family be not-kind to me. Once we die, they are not my family anymore. This is how you get the "five" that will help you "be the average of the five people around you". 29. Net-netEveryone wants to go on a strict diet. "I will NEVER eat carbs!" Or whatever your favorite macro-nutrient is to hate. Always remember that whatever macro-nutrient you avoid, there's an entire society made up of octogenarians who have been eating that food group all of their lives and they are completely healthy. So whatever you do, whatever you eat, whoever you hang out with: if net-net, there's more good than bad, then that's a good start. And, as you do that, you'll find your net-net weighs more and more on the side of what is good for you. For instance, if I have a plate of fruits, vegetables, and a cookie or two - net-net that is pretty good for me even if the cookies are not so good. Mmmm, I love cookies. The key is, if it's good in general not to judge people, then it's probably good to not judge yourself too harshly either 39. Failure = Experiment. People think "failure is good". Sometimes I even say that. Failure is not good. Failure is the worst. Failure is the mother and father of more failure. Thomas Edison did not fail 10,000 times to make one lightbulb. He did 10,000 experiments. Everything we do today is an experiment. Sometimes it's disappointing if an experiment doesn't work out. But that's ok, we experiment again. You can use this meta-habit when you build a business. Don't build a business and see if it works. Try this idea first: put up ads on Facebook or Craigslist or wherever for your product or serve. Use a small budget. See if people click. If a lot of people click then you might have a good business idea. If nobody clicks, then move on to the next idea before you build anything. That's a good way to experiment instead of building a whole idea and then watching it go down in flames. By the way, my spellchecking thing spelled "idea" as "ride" at first. That works also. We're all on a ride. Sometimes we pass each other on intersections and we wave hi. Waving "hi" is fun. Then we move on. Life has many crossroads. And we all get to choose which path we can choose at the crossroads. Nobody else should choose it for us. That's the most important habit, life hack, metahabit of all. Otherwise we'll crash.