 books written). I've written 17 books. 10 of them were awful. I will tell you right now I wish I can buy them back from the publishers and burn them. I will be a book burner of my own books. But some are ok. My reading list should be different from everyone else. But these are the books I've read that have made me a better writer. I bet some of them will work for you. I also encourage you to add to this list in the comments. I'm always on the hunt for more: 1) A collection of short stories: Jesus' Son, by Denis Johnson (his literary style combined with his poetry background creates unimaginable beauty on the page) 2) Mastery, by Robert Greene (non-fiction. He's just so smart)3) Slaughterhouse Five by Kurt Vonnegut (the way he anchors the story into the most intense moment in his life and then gives himself permission to go off on any tangent he wants after that). 4) Old Man and the Sea by Hemingway (it's almost a cliche to say this book. But this is the best example of: if you remove or add one word from this book it will make the book worse). 5) The Road by Cormac Macarthy (same as above, only in a dystopian science fiction world). 6) Interview with a Vampire. (I haven't read this book in over 20 years. But I still remember how she had small chapters and ended every small chapter with a cliffhanger. So I always had to turn the page. If all you do is remember: how can I make the reader read the next sentence, you win). I don't even like books about vampires but if I am being honest about what influences me, this one is it. 7) Factotum by Bukowski. Again, the beauty of the small chapter on an otherwise totally boring topic. Also, he was a poet first and I think people who read this book often miss the self-awareness that comes cloaked inside his ego. 8) Ant Farm. Simon Rich is funny. Funny is good. 9) A Million Little Pieces. Call him a fraud. Call him whatever. But I like the way James Frey breaks the rules in this book. It's a book about breaking the rules in writing. 10) Steps by Jerzy Kosinski. Short chapters. Each one gets intense quickly. It's a novel and none of the chapters are really connected. It's basically a book by an insane man who later killed himself. And that's writing. Also good by him: Cockpit. 11) Man's Search for Meaning by Victor Frankl (but only part 1 - not the theory part). His entire "meaning" that helped him survive the concentration camps was writing this book. And you feel it. 12) How I Found Freedom in an Unfree World by Harry Browne. I don't always agree with him (and I hate when people say that) but the philosophy has largely become a part of my writing. I guess same with "The Untethered Soul" by Michael Singer. 13) Born Standing Up by Steve Martin. I love standup comedy and to see this part of his autobiography basically taught me the art of autobiography and excellence. 14) No One Belongs Here More Than You by Miranda July. She is a love addict. I feel I am one also. Reading this collection of stories taught me how to write about it. 15) Person by Sam Pink and Spectacle by Susan Steinberg. Their entire personalities are reflected in their literally styles. I love when this happens. You can argue Thomas Pynchon and James Joyce do that also but I guess I might not like their personalities as much. 16) Tiny Beautiful Things by Cheryl Strayed. She invents the genre of literary compassion. I reread from this book before every Q&A I do. This is just a few. I just realized I can probably write 100 down. But these are particular to me. I'm going to keep writing my 100 (in fact, I have a book club where I do exactly that). But you should try writing your 100. Figure out your influences and you begin to figure out your writing. Read your influences and you begin to figure your writing for TODAY. Then clean the table around your computer. Have a glass of water. Shut down the Internet. Write.