 a day will do it. For me, I like doing yoga.B) I dont have a lot of friends. But I do know enough people that I can do this: every day I make sure I dont talk to people who bring me down. And I try to meet new people who bring me up. I wont do business with anyone who brings me down. The last time I tried that, my body told me, Bad James! On the second day on the job I fell straight to the ground and sprained my ankle for no obvious reason. If you let it, the reactions in your body (any part of your body) will tell you if you are with good people or bad people. When I get an email from someone who is bad for me, I usually get a quick stomach ache. So I delete the mail and put the emailer in Spam. Itss the only solution if I want to be in the 1%. I dont engage at all with anyone who is going to bring me down. Why should I? [See. How to Deal With Crappy People"]C) I like to be creative. Whether its through this blog or writing down a list of ideas or even drawing. It makes my brain come to life in ways that its not used to. Its important here, to never expect results from your creativity. When I was working on the pilot of a TV show, for instance, it made me very anxious to know whether or not it was going to get accepted. I was too attached to the results of the creativity. Just like now I might be too attached to blog traffic.D) Avoid these nine obstacles to success: @The Nine Ways to Guarantee Success - Altucher ConfidentialAny one of these nine will make me unhappy.E) I try to avoid all leaks For instance, Im happily married. Cheating on my wife would make me unhappily married. BAM! That would put me in the 99%.F) I try to be as grateful as possible. When I remind someone what theyve done for me and how happy it made me it not only brings back memories of that happiness it also makes me happy that Im helping them be happy by being grateful for them.G) I try to surrender. I say to myself, I cant do everything. I cant take this pain. I cant have everything I want. Sometimes Im helpless in the face of my material goals. So YOU figure it out. I dont even know who Im talking to. Who YOU is. I might be talking to my teddy bear when I say that.But having a sense of surrender and humility will help me reduce my needs (I dont need a yacht for instance) and help me to feel humility. Theres a physical exercise thats good to practice surrender if you are not good at it. In America were not really good at surrender. We never give up. We want to win every war. The exercise is to reach down and touch your toes. It obscures your vision (because you are staring at your knees), its almost impossible (you have to be flexible, both physically and mentally), and it looks like your bowing, which is an unusual thing for Americans to do. So it teaches surrender if you are uncomfortable with it.(Claudia touching her toes)H) I try not to lie to anyone or harm anyone. Because then you have to keep track of which lie was told to who. Or you feel bad about who you harmed, which was usually as a result of either anger or greed. If I never harm anyone I never have to deal with anyones anger (unless its irrational anger). Anger makes me unhappy.I) Sometimes you cant avoid work that you dont want to do. We all have to feed our families. But, in general, if I were to move every day towards staying away from corporate America (fluorescent lights and bosses make me less happy) then Ill be more happy.J) I need a tenth thing so that I can call this post, Ten Ways to be in the Top 1% so hold on a second while I think of somethingcoffee? No, sometimes it spills on me. A lot of sex? Makes me VERY happy but sometimes makes me jealous or anxious. Ahh, sleeping 8-9 hours a day. Because then I know Im in the top 1% for at least 1/3 of the day. And I also know I wont be tired the other 2/3, which would put me in the bottom 99%.And if Im consistently in the top 1% of happiness, maybe theres a slight chance my two daughters , and maybe others I interact with, will be in the top 1% when theyre older. Happiness is both contagious and hereditary. And so onRead More: The 1% Rule for Creating All Habits