 I've interviewed at least 100 dominatrixes. Which makes me an expert on something but I'm not sure what.The math I use to get there is straightforward. The first time I had to do an interview it was for my HBO web series "3AM" 18 years ago. The idea was this: if you were out on a Tuesday night at 3 in the morning, I was going to find you and interview you.Why Tuesday? Because Saturday is too obvious (you were enjoying a night out on the town). And Tuesday, well, let's just say you were up to something. No judgement!I was really scared the first time. And the second time. And the 100th time. And 18 years later during podcasts I'm still nervous every time I'm about to interview someone.But for those 3am shows I would pretend I was an actor and that I knew the people and I would just go up to them and say, "Hey, how's it going?"I wore my HBO jacket and there were video people behind me so the subjects would get a little bit shocked and then I would explain what I was doing.The key was this: within the first 15-30 seconds I had to get them so comfortable that they had to be able to tell me their deepest secrets.People were cheating on their spouses (both men and women), people were looking for drugs, or were teenagers scared of their parents and police, or were simply completely insane. There were drug dealers, prostitutes, every sort.One time I took my assistant with me to be the production assistant on a shoot. She said (I love you Trish), "Are you like a dominatrix magnet or something?" since we had so many professional dominatrixes we would run into and who were eager to be interviewed. At least 5% of the people I approached randomly.I did this for three years and as I always tell people: I turned over every rock in NYC. There's nothing I didn't know about what goes on in NYC at three in the morning.I went to Riker's Island (a jail), I went to sex clubs, I went to late-night factories, I went to illegal radio stations, I pretended to be homeless for weeks at a time, I went to buildings with floor after floor of cubicles with naked women doing online sex charging by the second (and this was 1997).And often I would hear the saddest horror stories of what cast people out from the day into the night, probably never to return to normal lives again.I would release four interviews a week. In a sense, I was podcasting from January 1996 to January 1999. Four interviews released a week, chosen out of about 15 interviews a week. A little over 2000 interviews in all. 5% of that equals about 100 dominatrixes.And for 100% of them, I had to get my interviewees comfortable in 30 seconds or less. After 30 seconds they start throwing bottles at you. Or chasing you. Or even worse, just simply ignoring you.For my first few weeks of interviews, HBO made me bring a bodyguard. But when we were chased out of a transvestite club once he was at least three blocks ahead of me. He was a track star in college. Or in the FBI. Or some military unit he claimed.Then I would make my interviewees sign a release form. It wasn't required but I asked them to put their phone number on the release form. I will admit that on only three occasions I used the phone number later to ask a girl out on a date. After all, they were already comfortable talking to me. And that HBO jacket had to come in handy somehow.A podcast is different but also the same. The similarity is that they have to get comfortable with you. Sometimes its hard.Coolio told me the other day he thought I was obnoxious at first. But then he said at the end, "but you got me to reveal some real deep shit I wasn't planning on talking about. Kudos." That was like milk chocolate spilling into my brain.Here's what I do and what I DON'T do.A) PREPARATION:This past week I did 4 podcasts. For the four podcasts I read 11 books. I read all the books written by each person I'm interviewing. I highlight parts of each book and make comments on the highlights. I then write down in my notepad what question I might want to ask based on that highlight.Most of the time I highlight something because I learned something incredible from it, hence the very reason the person is on my podcast - because I wanted to learn from them and they are heroes of mine.In one case this week I had to track down a book released in the UK but not yet released until next month in the US.In another case, the person I was interviewing didn't have a book out but I read through all the articles he was involved in and the media strategy he had helped set up for his company.I also watch every interview the person has ever done.This is critical because I want to make sure I don't repeat any questions they are already bored of answering. The last thing I want is for them to think, "ugh, I can't believe he asked me that".I know from prior interviews I've watched what questions they've been asked and what questions they are totally sick of.Also by looking at prior interviews, I know the stuff they are just beginning to reveal and have never revealed before. This gives me ideas of where to explore further.B) GET THEM COMFORTABLEWhen I interviewed Peter Thiel, at first he was busy so I had to call back. When he got on the phone my first question was, "So what have you been up to today?" And that led to a fun conversation.Sometimes I say, "I've been looking forward to this but first I have a beef to settle with you." And the "beef" is usually a story where we had briefly intersected and I make fun of it. With Jim Norton I had to remind him of what people thought of him the day he started fourth grade.Always the first line or two has to put them at ease.AN IMPORTANT POINTt: I'm almost always recording before they realize I'm recording. Often the best gems are when the "pressure of the interview" hasn't started yet.I don't do this to fool anyone. I tell them afterwards and they usually laugh. Because usually the casual talk is where we really begin to relate.C) SET EXPECTATIONSI usually tell people right in the beginning what I hope my listeners or readers will get out of the interview.I don't want to just promote someone's book or show. I want to learn something. I want my listeners to learn something. I want to laugh. And then...D) I WANT THE PERSON I INTERVIEW TO LEARN SOMETHINGI don't like an interview to beME: questionPERSON: Deep answerJust like I want to have conversations with my friends rather than interviews, I like the interviews on my podcast to be like conversations.An interview is like a guided tour through someone's life or a particular work they have recently done.A conversation is an exploration that two people have where hopefully they can meet somewhere in the middle and be curious about each other's answers. That's my ideal.Like anyone, the people I'm interviewing have problems in their lives. I like to hear those problems and offer my two cents, whether they help or not. I want to make someone think without coming across as annoying.This is very difficult. But if I'm listening close enough to what they are saying I can hear the small sorrows and successes that are in the spaces between words. That is often where the real interview takes place.E) CURIOSITYI hate when someone says something I don't understand. I don't hate them, I hate the feeling I get when I don't understand something.It's like this itch on my back that I can't quite reach.If I'm curious about something, I'll ask. Some interviewees (Wayne Dyer) if you just hit "Go" he'll talk for an hour. But I get curious about almost everything he says.I want my life to be better so I need to understand everything. And if I think he's missing something or skipping something because he's speaking at level I don't understand, then I stop him until I understand.If you are afraid to be curious for fear of offending them or interrupting too much then there is no point in doing the interview.As an example, when Coolio mentioned he broke his cocaine habit, I was really curious. It's not easy to break a habit like that. So I had to interrupt him when he had already gone onto the next thought and say, "How did you break that habit?"F) DON'T HAVE AN AGENDAI never argue with someone I'm interviewing. I'm not an investigative journalist. Nor do I really have any strong opinions about anything. But if I'm not sure I agree, then I want to know why someone thinks the way they do. I want to learn something from it.There's always many sides to every story. Who am I to judge?If you turn away from the sun, you're in the dark. But the sun is still there, shining equally on everyone. In an interview we're all equally lit in the sun, no matter what thoughts go through our head or what experiences we've had.The listeners are the sun. I can either show them light, or darkness. And they can't see if it's just darkness.G) ALWAYS BRING IT BACK DOWN TO THE LISTENERYou know who your audience is. The person you're interviewing either doesn't know or doesn't care. I don't say this in a critical way. Their business is their business and your business is your audience.Make sure when things go on a tangent, that some value is extracted for the audience. Pull it back.H) REPEAT AND SUMMARIZEEvery now and then take what has been said and try to summarize in verbal bullet points the value that has been expressed in a down-to-Earth useable fashion.This gives them an opportunity to either agree, expand on, or correct.I) ASK THEM SOMETHING THEY HAVE NEVER BEEN ASKED BEFOREI like it when someone I've interviewed calls me later and says, "Friends are listening to this and saying they've never seen this side of me."You have to dig in your preparation and listen during the interview to find a path that they have never been taken on before. On that path is the gold.J) WHAT DID YOU LEARN?Right after an interview is done, I almost completely forget it. So I always try to take notes or write down things right afterwards else I'll forget.If I do all of the nine other things above then I will definitely get value for myself out of the interview. Things I've learned that can improve my life.An interview is never just audio, or video, or text. It's everything and you have to remember the critical points, the points that scream, "LEARN THIS!" that you can then repeat in every medium where you publish the interview.Many of these things are completely unexpected. From almost everyone I've interviewed I learn something new that was not planned, either by me and in many cases by the interviewee. These are often the most valuable to share.---One time, way back when, I was interviewing a professional dominatrix for my 3am project. She said something I never forget. "People don't pay me for the things I do to them. People pay me so that when it's over I leave."Don't drag the interview out hoping for more gems than might exist there.When it's over, leave. Hopefully at the end you have a new friend and you've learned many new things and have had a fun time and will make people laugh and give people value.The best interview is when all the equipment is off, you take a deep breath, and you realize that in the past hour your life just got a little bit better.