 guy I knew on Wall Street. I couldnt even find the guys office. I had never been down as south as Wall Street. My friend and I sat there while Shlomo (not his real name, but you get the drift) said, look at me! Ten years ago I was a shlub. Now I have 100 million dollars. Only in America, right? About two years later Shlomo was in the center of a massive FBI sting involving a currency brokerage he had started that had been simply pocketing investors money since the 70s. He went to jail. Even my orthodox friends turn away and refuse to talk about him whenever I ask if they knew him. Scarcity. My feelings of safety and immortality quickly gave way to scarcity. After all, I thought, if I could make 10 million dollars then it must be too easy. In fact, I honestly thought, everyone else had probably already made 11 million dollars. So then I felt poor again. I now needed 100 million dollars to be happy. I drove in a car with a friend of mine and his wife. I said, everyone has 10 million dollars now. She quickly said, not everyone. Friends. I lost some friends. Then I made some new friends. By the time I was going down in the elevator from my apartment that one last time, 100% of those new friends were destined to never speak to me again (at least through January 12, 2011). My new friends said things like, Mark Cuban is a stud or Fuck him. Take away all his shares or Good luck. Have a nice life or of course its legal!(one of many paintings I bought) The value of money. I realized (too late then, but I learned) that I never knew the value of money. I had never even been aware of money before. My prior goals had been playing games, making fun websites, or writing novels. Then my only goal was money, money, money, and more money. I told my therapist at the time, in 2001, its like losing a loved one and she said, sweetie, sounds like youve never really lost a loved one before.Money is a great thing. Its the payoff on hard work, great luck (which is often earned luck) and you can do amazing things with it. Build new businesses, create jobs, buy your independence and freedom from corporate America. But first you have to climb many hurdles, of which earning the money is only the first. Very few things are better than earning a lot of money.Money finds a home only in places where its appreciated. I didnt appreciate the money. So it left me.When we were in the car, driving to our new home back in 2002 it was in the middle of a snowstorm. I wanted to cry I felt so bad about what was happening. But it was too much to think about. So for a brief moment I watched the snow and remembered what it was like to be a kid. Tasting the first snow of the year on the tip of my tongue.Read More: What do you do after you make a ZILLION dollars?