 My eight year old daughter is crying right now. Shes trying to draw manga-style comic book figures. The eyes look stupid! she says, and the arms look flimsy! My oldest tries to calm her down, Mollie, Im three years older than you. Thats why my characters look so good, she says, but somehow that doesnt work and it doesnt help when my oldest says, Mollie, guess what, I finished drawing on the whole pad? Arent these pretty?I tell my youngest, Mollie, look on the Internet and see how other artists do their eyes and arms. I bet there are some Manga artists who even have videos on how to do it.She says, but thats copying. I dont want to copy. I refuse.So I tell her my favorite quote from Picasso, Good artists copy. Great artists steal. And my oldest says, that would mean HE stole. And I tell her thats right but still my youngest refuses to listen. She says, I dont want to copy. I want to do something completely original.But thats impossible. Just about every idea worked on now is a result of the following recursive formula:NI(X) = NI(1) + NI(2 )+ NI(3) + MIWhere NI = new idea and NI1, NI2, etc equals various new ideas as of yesterday. And MI which could be a tiny component of the whole equation, is My improvement. Which, again, might be minimal, or zero, at best.Examples: telescope. Galileo stole the telescope. He took the original invention by Hans Lippershey, made it a bit longer and more powerful and gets full credit 400 years later for the invention. telephone. Who invented the telephone? Well, Alexander Graham Bell of course? But only after the looked at the failed patent Antonio Meucci filed in 1874 (Meucci was too poor to send in the $10 patent charge. Sopatent denied. Enter Bell). relativity. Einstein stole part of the theory of relativity from Poincare. Poincare published countless papers on relativity that Einstein had studied before his own first book on relativity. Einstein cited hundreds of sources but didnt mention Poincare once. Do the research but there are several instances of direct plagiarism in his initial book on relativity. Search. Google. Not quite a steal in the sense of the above but the entire concept of a search engine was dead and over by the time Google hit the scene. My little story on this: A company called Oingo came calling one of my partners one day in 2000 or 2001. I forget which year, thats how little impact it made on me. They were working on some algorithm for matching ads with web pages on search engines, or something like that. They needed funding badly. We almost couldve named our price. I said, because I was the resident genius, No way. Isnt the entire search engine business dead? Somehow they survived, changed their name to Applied Semantics and were bought by a tiny search engine company with no revenues called Google. The Oingo algorithm became Adsense which accounts for 99% of Googles revenues. The Applied Semantics deal wouldve been worth about $1bb  $2bb by now. Suffice to say, Google built on the backs of everyone from Lycos to Oingo to Altavista, etc. Superman. Captain Marvel, which was first put out by Fawcett Comics in 1940 was of course a direct ripoff of Superman and yet became very successful.And Superman himself may have been a plagiarism of sorts. 5 years before the first Superman came out, Jerry Siegel (Supermans creator) reviewed the book Gladiator about a boy growing up in rural America who had super powers.Siegel claimed in 1940 that Gladiator had not been an inspiration. He did not at that point note his 1932 review of the book. Decl of