 HOW TO HIRE SOMEONE TO LOVE?One time I hired a friend to help me with a writing job. Then I fell hard for her. Then she got pregnant. Then she got an abortion without telling me. Then I found out she also had another boyfriend. And, by the way, she did a horrible job for me. -----In my first businesses, one of my partners was my sister. Ultimately she didn't like one of my decisions and she quit. Her last email to me was, "I never want to speak to you again for the rest of my life."And she has lived up to her word. ----When you build a business, or you are doing work that is important to you: you shouldn't hire people you love. Because love might hide the things that are very important for you completing your job. I might love someone who can't spell. So I shouldn't hire them to spellcheck. Claudia, my wife, works with me on a lot of projects. We even do a podcast together.But that was after years of relationship where we got to know each other and what we were good at and what we were bad at. If I were to disappear tomorrow, she could probably pretend to be me. If she were to disappear tomorrow, I would be lost. So she's hired! But, sadly, she can't spellcheck.----But this post is not about hiring loved ones. It's the reverse. It's about finding the people you love by using a hiring process. Recently I read the book "Who". The authors had interviewed over 20 billionaires, 30 CEOS, and dozens of recruiting managers and then developed a process of hiring. They then tested the process over and over again to see if it brought the right people into a business. I don't care at all about their process for hiring. I'm glad it works for them. Good luck. When I read their book, I realized I used their process in personal relationships! Wife, friends, work friends, close ties, weak ties, etc. So here it is. A) SCORECARDList all the features you want for a particular relationship. Like, for a wife: I want someone who doesn't cheat. For a friend, I want someone who doesn't lie to me. I make a list of ten things for each "position". When I was first dating after I got divorced I did not have a scorecard.So I met women who were interested in all sorts of things that had no interest for me. Women who were interested in dating other guys at the same time. Women who were more focused on my belongings than who I was. Women who liked me but wanted to see what else was better. Women who wanted me to dress a certain way, or even women who wanted me to like having ten cats in my house and five babies. I have nothing against any of these people. One woman I really liked once got super drunk at a party I invited her to. I have nothing against that. But then her breasts fell out of her dress and she never noticed. I got her out of the party. And she kept laughing at me, "Your friends only like you because they think you have money. They're idiots and you're an idiot." And maybe she was right. But we broke up. She is now happily with someone else high up in the banking industry and I am happy for her. She is also running her own company. Very successful and a very good person. But not for me. I was very very unhappy. I got drunk every night. I kept asking myself, "am I crazy? Does nobody exist who has the simple qualities I want?" So I made a scorecard. I made my list. Did I find her? I think I came pretty close. Argentina was originally discovered by pirates escaping who needed a place to escape the British. Well, Claudia is my pirate and stole my heart. I use a scorecard now for everything. Friends, acquaintances, work friends (who are every bit as important to me as friends), people who I will do business with (who are also friends, else I won't work with them. Period.), and so on. It's only in the past few years I've realized that each role has different criteria. If they don't fit the criteria they are probably not good for that role. Probably not good for me. For instance, friends around the neighborhood are different than work friends. Both are very important to me. But both have different roles. Selfishly, I only want people around me who are good for me. Is there anything wrong with that? B) SOURCEYou can meet a woman in a bar. In a yoga class. Or a book club. Which would you choose? It really depends on your scorecard above. But just because you have a scorecard doesn't mean you will find what you want. You also have to look in the right places. Whenever I've looked in a bar, disaster resulted. Whenever I've looked in a chess club, I'd only meet men (who became good friends). I meet friends by making sure I go to places where the people have some similar values to me. So I don't go to a hockey game (there might be good friends there but it's not a good SOURCE). Or I might go to a conference where people are focused on improving themselves. Or , to be honest, since I so freely express