 day you loved as a kid.I loved to write. So I write every day. I loved being nice to girls. So I'm nice to women every day.Other people loved sports. I didn't.- Ask questions.Brian Grazer, the world famous movie produce or Apollo 13, Arrested Development, and about 100 other movies, would have "curiousity conversations".He's simply call up anyone he wanted (the Dalai Lama, Steve Jobs, etc) , explain who he was, and asked them questions.That's how he met Ron Howard (the smartest person in his room). That's how they together started Imagine Entertainment. That's how he's now got the top show on TV ("Empire").- Make MistakesI was teaching my daughter to serve harder. She had a good consistent serve. She never missed. But it was too soft. Easy to return.So I said, "hit it so hard you have to grunt".She started missing. She was getting depressed. Every shot came in about 6 inches to the left of the box.But then she adjusted. The shots started to hit in the box. And they were harder.I asked her, "what was going on in your head?"She said, "I saw I was hitting too much to the left so I moved it over."If she kept hitting her safe easy shot, she never would have improved.Only mistakes made her improve. ONLY MISTAKES.- Sleep.Everyone has a different opinion on this. I sleep nine hours a night. Then I try to take a nap during the day.Your brain is most active 2-5 hours after you wake up. Do your productive passion work then.Stay away from people who claim they only need 3-5 hours a sleep a night. They are evil.- Say "NO"I used to travel a lot for meetings. None of them made money. Not a single one.I remember one time sitting by the pool at a hotel in LA. That was fun. I drank and swam and drank and swam.In between, I had meetings that went nowhere. Then I went back to my company.How was LA.Great.One week wasted.- A little every dayI want to write a novel.I write a few paragraphs a day. I maybe tweak the outline every day. Guess what. If you write three paragraphs a day you'll write four novels a year.Three of them might be bad. Maybe ten of them will be bad. Maybe the first twenty will be bad.That's ok. That means in five years you will be a success. Because of "a little every day".- Don't be in a rush.I've interviewed about 150 successful people so far for my podcast. I don't mean "financial success". Again, money is a byproduct.One thing in common: 10 - 20 years for an overnight success.BUT...Celebrate small successes.Along the way to overnight success (20 years) you will have many many small successes.You can only give yourself permission for the next one if you celebrate the small success. It gives reinforcement to all of these habits.Plus, it's fun. You know what I mean.- LoveI don't have to teach you what love is. But here's what I try to do:a. if it's someone I don't know, I pretend like they are going to die tomorrow. So I treat them with the love we treat someone who will not exist anymore.b. if it's someone I don't like, I treat them the way a mother treats her child. I wish for their best, no matter what my personal feelings are.c. if it's someone I love but is not making me happy, I sincerely wish them the best for the future.d. if it's someone I love, I listen. I help. I surprise.Often we pray to things that don't exist. Often we meditate with invisible goals in mind. Often we believe in science fiction.But right this second you can feel love, and that's the only religion.- Right now.Every time I've had a problem in the future, it never came true.Every time I've had a regret in the past, the regret kept me glued to the mud.Right now you are dealt cards. No other hand before or after will help you right now.So this is the only moment to focus on. Right now is best predictor of Right Life.---I said I had 20 habits. I can't count that high. So I don't know if this is true. I give myself permission to not be exact all the time.Oh! That's another habit: Give yourself permission to not always be right. Give yourself permission to not always be liked. Give yourself permission to not always be at peace. Give yourself permission to not be a success.Then you will gradually have whatever you gave yourself permission "to not".--Will these habits make you a millionaire? Yes. Definitely.Will these habits make you a success? Yes.But more important:These habits will make you the sort of person who has these habits.No longer will you be a single ray of light. You will be the sun.