 After losing over one million a week, cash, for the entire summer of 2000, I was forced to sell my apartment. So one day in 2002, all the boxes were packed, the apartment was empty. We had two moving trucks waiting downstairs to move us an hour north of the city. It was like an exile. My self-esteem was gone, my apartment was gone, I hadnt slept a full night in almost three years, and other things I cant even talk about. My ex-wife, my two toddler girls, and Lynne, a close family friend who was helping us move, were taking one last look around. Oh. My. God, Lynne said. This is really it.Its been a decade and a lot has happened, good and bad (mostly good). Someone on quora yesterday asked the question, whats it feel like to be rich? I figured Id answer based on my pre-2000 experiences. Ill save 2000-2010 for another time.A lot of people started answering the quora question with I was able to buy this, or that, or this and that.  Money was never about that for me, then or now. Theres never been anything I wanted to buy (other than the next ipad!) I have minimal material possessions. If you know me youd see I dress like crap and the edges of all of my pants are frayed. I dont own a suit. I dont have a drivers license so fancy cars are out. I like comic books more than paintings. I dont like to fly or sail. And I dont drink wine or eat out a lot. So what did it mean for me back then: DNA. I finally felt good enough about myself to pass on my genes and have children. I never wanted to have children before that. Theres apparently some evolutionary reason that we feel a strong urge to pass on our genes. I had never felt that before but somehow having a significant amount of money gave me permission to want to have kids. Safety. For the briefest of moments, I felt safe  like nothing could harm me and I could live forever. In 1999 I visited the Chairman of a company I was a shareholder of. I was in LA and he picked me up at the hotel in his latest Porsche. We drove to his enormous house and he gave me a tour. When we sat down he told me, I dont even have to do this anymore. I have so much money now that nothing can touch me. I know it sounds unbelievable and a clich but a year later he came down with cancer. After battling with cancer for years he was given worse and worse news about the outlook until eventually he shot himself and his kids found the body. I heard about the news when his wife called everyone in his address book. This is not meant to be a lesson. Money has its benefits but immortality is not one of them. (Although, if you must  How To Live Forever).Another example. A friend of mine was running a prominent gaming site and wanted to maybe sell it or do something with (it was 1999, so why not?) I introduced him to a successful