 There are zero good books about writing. They are scams. Many people will say, "Stephen King's 'On Writing'". Total scam. For one thing, the book is about Stephen King having a truck hit him while he was reading while he was walking in the middle of the road. If you want to be a good writer, don't do that. Don't read and walk in the middle of the road. Some people will say, "Ray Bradbuy's 'Zen and the Art of Writing'". This is a good book but not a book about writing. It's a collection of essays about all the things Ray Bradbury has been interested in in his life. It just so happens he later writes about dinosaurs, or people with tattoos, or whatever. He gets so passionate about a man with tattoos that he writes abut them. Occasionally I hear a ridiculous answer like "Strunk & White's" book. Who? Who are these people. And yes, grammar is important. But that's what editors are for. I love Anne Lamott's book "Bird by Bird". But some people hate it. Some people don't like how she describes writing. So it's not in the top three books about how to write. I can't read a book "How to be a great golfer" and get better at golf. Here's what I have to do: - I have to golf a lot- I have to take lessons from a pro- I have to take video of myself golfing and have the pro go over with me every stroke I did WRONG. - I have to practice those strokes over and over again. As Bruce Lee says, I don't fear the man who practices 10,000 kicks, I fear the man who practices 1 kick 10,000 times. - I have play competitive golf. When you play something competitively you learn the emotional psychology of how to deal with the adrenaline and tension that comes with playing with the grownups. And then with all of the above, I have to repeat. A lot of writers will say you have to write a lot. This is not really as true as people think. It depends what you want to write. If you want to write a piece of literary fiction, you probably need to write a lot. If you want to write 600 pages on butterflies, you have to sit down and write a lot. Only because sitting down that long to do anything is very difficult. If someone wrote a book: "How to sit down for 10,000 hours and not get bored while staring at a luminescent screen" then that would probably be a good book about how to write better. Some people say you have to read a lot. This is partly true. But if I had to research everything, then why not just hand people a reading list of what you researched. Then you don't have to write a book. You can write a paragraph about why you used each book and knit that altogether into a theory. You do have to experience a lot. But don't be fooled. There's two ways to have drama. One is: you can have it in your life. Which is often painful. I don't want to go to a war just so I can write about it. I don't want to be an orphan just so I can write about it. You either have drama in your life or in your writing. It's very hard to have drama in both. You should experience something: passion for what you want to write about. If you have a lot of experience being President of the United States then you can probably transcribe that and make a book. Or if you think that eventually we will colonize Mars and then have a war with the robots we left behind on Earth then you can probably write a novel. But stick to what happens. ("Then the explosions came...") Don't focus on being flowery with you writing. I do think reading helps you use virtual mentors to teach you how to do some writing. But it depends on what kind of writing you want to do. If you want to write mystery novels, read a lot of popular mystery novels. That will make you a better mystery novel writer. BUT ONLY if you follow one trick: once you have figured out "the rules" on the popular mystery novels, be strong enough to change them a bit. Now you will turn into a good writer (with 10,000 hours practice and 10