 reluctantly go through the motions.4) He was a victim of reverse anti-SemitismWhen he originally wanted to work for his mentor Ben Graham, on Wall Street, Graham said, no. Buffett was shocked and asked why. Graham told him it was because he wasnt Jewish. Graham wanted to save a spot in the firm for a Jewish person. To be fair, Graham was worried that Jews couldnt be hired anywhere else on Gentile Wall Street so he wanted his firm to be Jewish-friendly.The key to success though is persistence. Buffett went back to Omaha but kept pitching ideas to Graham until Graham eventually hired him. Persistence is the only sure-fire method for obtaining success.5) Adam SmithIts useful to look at the history of the field you want to master. When I was trading for Victor Neiderhoffer I saw that he had collected just about every finance book from 1800 on. So I started reading books anywhere from 100 to 30 years old just to see what people were thinking and how finance and trading had evolved.One book, Supermoney was by the pseudonymous Adam Smith detailing random adventures he had as a reporter in finance in the late 60s, early 70s. On one adventure he decided to visit a retired investor (the book was written around 1972) who was trying to figure out what to do with the rest of his life now that he had $20 million after shutting down his hedge fund. They drove around and had a rambling conversation. At one point they passed a furniture store and the investor pointed out the window, Im going to own that one day.Obviously, that investor was Warren Buffett. But Smith didnt know then that he was dealing with WARREN BUFFETT because he wasnt in all-caps yet. And, in fact, many years later Buffett did buy that furniture store.I thought Supermoney was fascinating for its predictive abilities. How could Smith know that Buffett would be the best investor to profile? In the next profile after Buffett , Smith wrote about a guy who was sitting in a Swiss jail. If you screw up a bank in Switzerland you are going to jail, no get-out-of-jail free cards. What was this guy doing while in jail? Trying to write some fiction. Thats where the profile ends. Paul Erdman went on to become the bestselling finance thriller writer ever. I highly recommend his novels.In any case, its a great chance to see how someone described Buffett before he became BUFFETT. I mentioned this to Pamela van Giessen at Wiley and she ended up republishing the book as a Wiley Investment Classic. I give myself full credit on that one even if she disagrees with me.6) The SEC investigated Buffett in 1974-1976 for manipulating penny stocks. This was a serious charge. And Buffett takes his reputation seriously. And the reality is (I wont get into details but Janet Lowe covers it here), he WAS manipulating penny stocks and he sort of admits it. But he had a good reason. He was buying a company and he promised a shareholder of the company that the price wouldnt be lower than a certain number. So he made sure the price of the penny stock never fell below that number. Or something like that. If I got the details wrong, Warren, you can put a gun to my head and fire the bullet. Suffice to say, the SEC didnt know what to do with someone like Warren so they slapped him on the wrist (some historical versions say the face) . He admitted nothing but one of his companies paid a $115,000 fine.Im sure he was nervous his reputation was going to go down the tubes but he survived to live another day.7) Zen Its not so bad to pick up the habits of Warren Buffett for a week and try them out:No computer on his deskNo cell phoneHe plays bridge 12 hours a week (I guess he uses a computer at home for this). Bill Gates is often his bridge partner.Try it for one week: no computer, no cell phone, play a game for at least 12 hours for the week.(Buffett and Gates playing bridge)8 ) LoveUgh, I was going to do 10 of these but Im getting tired. Theres a fun story about how he actually took over Berkshire Hathaway. It was more ruthless than anything JR Ewing would do. And Im not going to mention the intertwining personal relationships he had. Thats well-documented everywhere. But I give him credit for being open, unconventional, and living the life that best suited him with the least amount of stress. As his daughter, Susan, says: Unconventional is not a bad thing. More people should have unconventional marriages.But, one thing struck me as interesting. The annual meeting is about eight hours long. I dont recommend it to anyone. I cant remember anything he said except one thing. Actually I remember something Charlie Munger (Buffetts number two) said. Something to the effect that long-term you better bury all your guns and valuables in the backyard and at that point Buffett shut him up.But one thing Buffett said always stuck with me. Someone asked him, How do you measure success? And all 20,000 of us leaned forward to hear what the magic number was. But he said this: I measure success by how many people love me. And the best way to be loved is to be loveable.And that, to me was the most unusual thing about Warren Buffett.Read more: The Ultimate Cheat Sheet For Investing All of Your Money 