 10 LIFE-HACKS, 10 LIFE-HABITS, 10 META-HABITSImagine a piece of meat. Put some bones underneath it, cover the bones with muscles and nerves and skin. Put on two pairs of eyes and a mouth (but not too big a mouth, those are annoying). Take a huge needle and inject life into it. It's going to hurt at first. But that's what needles are for. This is what our robot masters did when they began what they call "The Great Experiment" and created us. "What if they find out," they said to each other. "Don't worry," said the chief scientist who then laughed to himself. "They are so deluded, that each one of them thinks they are important and have a purpose in life."They are just a bunch of skin jobs". Much later, one of the robot masters, Ridley Scott, used that same phrase in the movie "Bladerunner". ---Then they give us the ability to make other little "tubbies". I like calling little things "tubbies". When I first had a new little tubby around I thought she was very annoying. She was like a new roommate that would cry and not speak English and want food all the time and vomit on me. If she really were a roommate, I would have asked her to not even worry about next month's rent. "You just threw up on me and tried to suck my wife's breasts. Please get the hell out of here." But that's wishful thinking. She can't even understand English. Kids are not life hacks. They are life attacks. But we can't avoid them. I don't know why. They happen. ---As soon as we hit the ground, we want tricks. We want money and sex as quickly as possible. And maybe fame. There are "life-hacks" - things that you can do today to improve your life tomorrow. These work for awhile but then you get tired of them.Then there are "habits" - things you can start today that will improve your life 10 years from now. Habits are difficult though. Because if you are only improving a tiny bit each day you won't notice them. You'll think nothing is happening. So you'll stop. I hate habits. It's so hard to remember to do them. So you need "meta-habits" to keep reminding yourself to do the habits. Advice is autobiography. And even though I mostly fail in life, here are 10 life-hacks I try. 10 habits. 10 meta-habits. I've written about some of these before. Who can resist writing about life-hacks involving $2 bills. But I will be more concise and not always explain the reasoning. Just trust me that they work. If you've seen these before, please skip. I don't want to bore you. If you haven't seen them before, you can figure out why these life-hacks work. Put them in the comments and I'll respond. LIFEHACKS1. Carry $2 bills with you everywhere. Tip with them. Nobody forgets a person who tips with $2 bills. You can order $2 bills at your bank. 2. Wear a lab coat in airports. People will let you go past them in line. 3. Carry waiter's pads with you. Use them to take notes in meetings. Use them to write down your ten ideas a day. Use them as business cards. People will think you are frugal and clever. And it's always a good conversation-starter. People will say, "I'll take fries with that burger" and I'll leave it up to you to come up with a witty response. 4. Mirror people. I was talking to Nick Morgan, author of "Power Cues". When he was younger he had an accident which changed his brain. He could no longer tell how people were reacting to him. So he made a lifelong study of body actions and what they mean. For instance, he told me. "If you want people to like you, then very subtly mirror all of their moves. If they cross their legs, cross your legs a few seconds later. If they wipe their forehead, wipe your forehead." "Won't they notice?" I asked. "No," he said, "People are too focused on themselves to consciously notice what you are doing. That's why you have an edge." "Then," he said, "after 15 minutes, reverse it. "You wipe your forehead first. See if they then wipe theirs. You start leading the actions. If they start following you it means they like you and will start to follow your suggestions." I haven't tried this yet. If you try it, please tell me if it works. Nick Morgan gave me a few more suggestions on my podcast the other day. 5. Oh, one more from Nick. "Figure out the bottom end of your vocal range and the top end. Speak about 1/4 above your bottom end. If you do this in a meeting, you will dominate the meeting." Ok, I've tried that a bit with Claudia. Not sure it works with a wife. "Do the laundry," she said. But maybe she was using her bottom range when she said it also. Duel of the bottom ranges. 6. Memory Hack. To remember things, you need more than one emotional hook. I've spoken to memory champs Jim Kwik and Josh Foer. They both told me this. For instance, if you can't remember "James Altucher" also think "James I'll Touch Her" and picture me touching a beautiful woman (go ahead, imagine that). Now you have two hooks into my name. The more hooks you have, the more parts of your brain are at work. The easier it is to remember lots of things, like a room full of names. Or "Claudia Azula" (my wife), I think of a blue monster ("azul" is blue in Spanish) clawing at me. 7. "There's always a good reason and a real reason". This always works. If I ask an employee, "why'd you do it this way?" they'll give a complicated, but good answer. Like, "I felt these paints looked good with that blue." But the real reason might be "I was too lazy to get new paints." For everything everyone says, including me, there's a good reason (which is hard to argue with) and a real reason. Always look for the real reason. 8. 80/20 rule cubed. Everyone knows that 20% of your employees (or 20% of your efforts, or 20% of the seeds planted), produce 80% of the value (or 80% of your profits, or 80% of the flowers that blood). But let's square it. So you apply the 80/20 rule on top of the 80/20 rule. And let's square that. So now 1% of your prior efforts produce almost 50% of the value. I tried this in my life. I used to make a lot of phone calls each day to find out how different businesses I was invested in were doing. Now I make 0 phone calls. Result: nothing really changed.Occasionally someone would call me and ask for advice (the 1%) and value would result (the 50%) but it gave me back a huge chunk of my life. HUGE. And I'm much happier. And pretty much I get the same results. Nobody really wanted to talk to me anyway. 9. No News. This is really a subset of the 1/50 rule above. I used to get my news from newspapers. I'd read 3-4 newspapers a day and then read online. That would take about two hours of life each day. Now I scan down what's trending on twitter. Takes me about two seconds. People always say, "no news is good news". Now....I always have no news. So it's always good news Some people have gotten angry at me over this. Like, "how can you change the world if you are so uninformed."To them I say, "Blah!" And it doesn't matter. I'd rather read a book then read about 9 children being killed in Kazakhstan. That's depressing!It's not like I'm going to go to Kazakstan and save anyone's life. But if I'm a good person, then perhaps other people will follow my example. And so on. Until it reaches Kazakstan. That's the most effective way to consistently change the world. 10. Never say "Hello". Ask a question instead. Even if it's the first time you are meeting someone. Like, "Why did you get divorced?" Or "Do you think you can beat me in a fight"? What does "Hello" mean anyway? 11. One more life-hack. ("Over promise and over-deliver")How to cut the 10,000 hour rule by 90%. K. Anders Ericsson and Malcom Gladwell have popularized the idea that it takes 10,000 hours of practice with INTENT to be the best in the world at something. Intent means, measure your success, give yourself feedback, and try to better your results at every attempt. If you just play cards for 10,000 hours, you won't get better. but if you study with a teacher, read books, figure out how to measure your success, and analyze your failures, that's "practice with intent". 10,000 hours is roughly 10-20 years of hard work. It would be nice to cut it down. Here are my two ideas on this, which I've applied in my life. First off, you don't need to be the best in the world to be better than everyone around you. The learning curve is steep but the final 10-20% is very flat. That's why it takes young tennis players a few years to get in the top 200 or the top 1000 but then it takes them another 10 years of hard work to be in the top 10. In the ENTIRE WORLD. So if you take 1000 hours. You'll be better than just about everyone you can possibly imagine encountering. For instance, take Scrabble. It might take you 1000 hours to remember all the 3 letter words, all the 4 letter words with Js and Qs. All the 6 letter "Stems" (a stem is six letters that, if almost any other letter is added, you have a legal 7 letter word, e.g. S A T I N E. Add "X" to that and you have "Antisex". Add "E" to that and you have "Etesian" and so on. There are about 20 useful stems). It will take you about 1000 hours to