 Many people make a "to do" list. I used to make that list also. And it felt great. I'd make the "to-do" list and then every time I did something on the list I'd cross it off and felt a sense of accomplishment. Woo-hooo! I called five people by 11am! Accomplishment releases all of these chemicals in the brain that then make you feel better. Very addictive chemicals. Dopamine, Endorphines, blah blah. So I'd put more things on the to-do list. More people to call. More things to write. More places to go or people to meet. Ugh. What the hell. Then at the end of the day I'd be spent and I'd feel bad for not finishing the things on my list. What a waste. I'm a waste. I'm a waste of human life. On my deathbed: "I didn't finish my to-do list". Now I have ONE thing on my list and then I'm done: I have to create one thing. This doesn't mean I'm an artist. Most things I create are really bad. Yesterday I made my first Vine video. Vine lets you make these six second videos. Here's my Vine. I shared it on Twitter.That was my "thing" of the day. It's neither good or bad. It was my one thing: Vine by James AltucherWhat happens when you only have one thing on your "to-do" list?More emails don't get answered. Most phone calls don't get returned. People think you're a jerk. I don't know. Lots of bad things happen. Things slip through the cracks. And where do they go? I have no idea. Garbage. People get disappointed. That's ok. They're all going to die. They won't say on their death bed, "everything would've been better if James just returned my call." One thing a day not only adds up, it compounds: - you have the one thing- you learn from creating one thing. That learning makes the next "one thing" better. - once you have a lot of "one things", each markets the other. - You learn new tricks. I had never used Vine before, for instance. - Without the pressure of everything else, your "one thing" gets your full focus and energy. This doesn't mean the other things don't get done. I still make calls to people I want to. I still talk to people or write stuff or do podcasts or take care of business and hang out with Claudia or my kids. But these things just aren't on a list. A MUST-DO-TO-BE-HAPPY List. BUT then at the end of the day, I do my "I Did" list. Even though only one thing was on my "to do" list. A LOT of things get on my "I DID" list. Because in the 15 or so hours I'm awake, if I spend one hour doing my one thing, I have 14 hours to do a lot of other things, all things I want to do. People I want to be with. Idea lists.Things I'm grateful for.But what if I work a 9 to five job?Ok, that's fine. If you listen closely enough to what your life is telling you, there's a lot of empty silences and pauses. You can do whatever you want in those silences. What if I have to take care of kids when I'm