 This is one of those questions where I give "the rules" and then at the end of the post I can say "and the last rule is to break all of the rules". It's almost a rule of "rules" posts that you have to have that at the end. You know why? Because we are all individuals. We all get physically healthy in different ways, for instance. Take diets as an example. Every diet says "don't". Don't eat carbs. Or don't eat meat. Or don't eat calories after 6pm. Etc. But for every "don't" there is at least one large massively healthy society that ONLY eats that macronutrient and yet they are healthy and live to 100+, etc. The essence of creativity is to take rules and figure out the way to break each rule so that it benefits you. I am an expert on what it takes to not be successful. Before I can give you the rules I must establish my credentials, which date back to six years old but after 10,000 hours of being a failure I have had my peak moments around 2002 and 2010 and maybe some at 2004 and 2005. and perhaps 2008. And a few failures around 1991 and 1994. I have started about 20 businesses and failed at 17 of them. I have failed as a husband, as have many. I hope I don't fail as a parent but certainly some people would look at my track record and say, "yes, yes indeed, he failed as a parent." I'm not the best boyfriend. One time I broke up with a girlfriend while I was on the elevator up to meet her her in her apartment. I just hit the down button and never spoke to her again. And then I was a good boyfriend because I sent a teddy bear to the other girl who was in the elevator with me. We ended up dating three months. Before I met the woman who is now my wife. Am I the only person who is not successful at so many things? Maybe. Yes, maybe. But I also have had a few successes. So I know both sides of the story, as they say. And so I will give my rules. What worked for me when I was a success. And what failed for me as well. HERE IS WHAT FAILURES DO:1) They believe in the word failure.We dont live long enough to fail. Like if a planet is around for 4 billion years and produces no life-forms, I would call that planet a failure. Everything else is an experiment. I have started 20 businesses. But in the worst case, at best it was an experiment that didnt go right. People say, only focus on the Now and yet they dont know what that means. Focus on your past also. And really take a look. When I went to graduate school and was thrown out, did I fail? Perhaps in some versions of the English language. But I view it that I experimented going to graduate school (or raising $30 million for my second business) and the experiment didnt work out. It didnt work out for a host of reasons. I didnt really want to be a professor (the IPO book was ending). I would rather be a writer than a computer scientist (I had no idea what my company even did. We were just trying to ride the IPO boo). And so on. Thomas Edison never said, I failed 10,000 times before I made a lightbulb. The guy was in a LABORATORY. He experimented. And now everyone gets into failure porn and says he failed. Thats BS! John Coltrane didnt fail when he couldnt stay in Miles Davis quartet. He was experimenting with Miles Davis style but ultimately, with 20 years of practice and study under his belt, he knew that only his unique style could survive and flourish in his own quartet. He experimented, learned from the experiment and moved on. 2) THEY UNDER PROMISE AND OVER DELIVER. Everybody is told a lie: to be a success you have to under promise and over deliver. This is the worst form of lack of integrity. The idea is that you are safe. Lets say you under promise and you under deliver. You think, incorrectly, hey, at least I have my integrity intact. No, you have nothing intact. You are just like everyone else. There are 3,000,000,000 employees o the planet and they are all under promising and most of them are under delivering. You are just like them. Try this: Over promise. And over deliver on what you over-promised. Believe me, if we can send a rocket to the moon powered by a computer 1/100,000 the power of your smart phone then you can over promise and over deliver on almost everything. Try it and you will see the results. its amazing. 3) PEOPLE WHO FAIL SEEM TO HAVE A LOT OF ACCIDENTSThey left their important project on the subway. They are sick. Their dog got sick. They broke up with their girlfriend or boyfriend. Theres a way to minimize accidents and its called health. You cant succeed if you are sick in bed. You cant succeed if you spent all night the night before reading your wifes emails because you cant trust her. You cant succeed if you arent grateful for being given at least the chance to be something better than what you are now. When someone consistently has a lot of excuses for why something has gotten done, I know they are not ready for the next step. The next step is an invitation to glory. They are not invited.yet. When I was young, I was the man with the excuses. I had them every day. I was a master of them. But I fooled nobody but myself. And went from job to job, business to business, blaming others, blaming external circumstances, etc. And you know what: I was right! If Im reading my wifes email and shes cheating on me, I deserve to fail. So heres what you do: You cant be perfect. But every day: Move, Eat, SleepWelllImprove your relationships (Call a friend, surprise a spouse, be kind to your kids)Be creative (only you know how to do this but at least write 10 random ideas a day)Be grateful for where you are. (and this is the Now that people brag about)4) DONT TAKE IT THE NEXT LEVELOh man, Im only on rule 3. You know, you ask these questions about how to succeed and fail in life and its not like two paragraphs is going to be the answer. Even long answers are just short cuts. Im working on a big project right now. Theres a lot of small details. If you are helping someone else on a big project. Your mentor, your boss, your teacher, your whatever - the one who has given you a chance - take some of those details and take it to the next level. The other day I was invited to a special screening of the movie Pawn Sacrifice starring Tobey Maguire as insane world chess champion Bobby Fischer. I was going to go. I had an extra ticket. I asked a lot of people to go with me. Finally, someone said yes. But then I realized I was too late. So I was an example of being a failure. I missed a detail. I failed rule #2. Thats ok. That happens to me. Whatever. Bobby Fischer always took it to the next level. Nobody ever thought he was the greatest talent in chess history. He probably had average talent. But he always said, "how can I take chess to the next level". When he was a kid he learned Russian so he could read the Russian chess magazines. After that, he never lost a US Championship. He was 13 years old. He was so much better than the Americans he even stopped playing in the US championship