 I found my passion the moment I had a bottle full of pills in my mouth and I had the choice whether to swallow them or not. I had carefully researched what would do the trick. But I was worried if I swallowed the pills then the insurance companies wouldn't pay my kids $4 million in life insurance. They have a funny thing about being judgmental on suicide. Suicide is a horrible thing for kids. I know this because my wife's mother killed herself. Sometimes I hear Claudia crying in her sleep. It's either because she's married to me or it's because of her mother. Sometimes when I wake her I think she's about to confess that it's both. I didn't mean for that first sentence to sound dramatic. But before you can find passion, you have to live. You have to say, I WANT to live. Life is very hard. We're born and a moment later, the connection to all of our happiness that we've ever experienced in the womb is cut by scissors. And then we are slapped hard by the doctor. Wake up! We're hit and slapped and burned by cigarettes all over our bodies over and over again until the day we die. So there's got to be a reason we put up with all this punishment. The first time I kissed a woman, I couldn't believe it. My lips touched the top of her lips, then the bottom of her pout. Then I found her, then I found me, and under a torn and desperate moon, I found a single moment of pleasure. It was wonderful. But I wondered, is this where the passion is? Because there are many of these moments, both good and bad, where inspiration might strike us. But at some point, they all meld together. And 10 years out I look back and I say, "that seems like yesterday". The days are bolted together by a stapler called "routine". What happened to those moments: my mom screaming my name though the neighborhood, my friends ignoring the parents, we were all on two or three piles of rocks on construction sites we were strictly forbidden from playing near. We were throwing rocks at each other. Because one side was Saturn and the other side was Jupiter and they were at war. Occasionally one of us would time travel and teleport to the other side. And the rock throwing would go in a different direction.There's no north and south in space. And we were in space, with laughter and fun and energy teleporting us back and forth, rocks were our weapons of mass destruction, laughter was our reasons for being, for ignoring the screaming intensity by which one day tediously turns into the next. "I hit him!" Einstein found his passion because he wondered what a man traveling the speed of light on a spaceship if he looked out the window and saw a man standing still. DaVinci found his passion drawing machines with wings that flapped like birds - the first illustrations of what 500 years later became planes. Just doodles. Thousands of them. Charles Darwin found his passion playing with rocks halfway around the world. He played with them, he kicked them around, he drew pictures of the tree of life around those rocks, for EIGHT YEARS, before returning to the land of adults where he accomplished his life's work while all of the adults jeered in his path. Mozart found his passion when he finally escaped the adulthood of a steady job in Salzburg, for the virility of Vienna where commanding operas and orchestras and singers and actors he grated Don Giovanni, the opera that changed every piece of music that ever came after that. Marie Curie found her passion, like so many of us, by again playing with rocks. Why did some rocks seem to be like the sun, their own source of light when all else around them was pitch black dark. Mick Jagger had no musical talent at all but would collect blues records from America and he and his childhood friend Keith Richards would lie around listening to them. When his parents sent him off to study at the London School of Economics, he was still listening to those records and doodling the notes rather than paying attention to supply versus demand. Mary Shelley wondered what it would be like if a machine had intelligence. She called her machine Frankenstein and made up stories about how people would treat such a hybrid human/machine. Ada Lovelace wondered what it would be like to tell a machine what to do. Could such a machine ever exist? Steve Jobs loved calligraphy and using electronics to scam the phone system. Nobody discovered their passion as an adult. The child that still lives and breathes and is hidden inside all of us knows the secret of our passion. Will this child tell us. Can we tease it to give us a clue? Will the child lead us on the right path or maybe play with us and show us the wrong directions first. It doesn't matter. It's by following the child inside of us that we get closer to the treasure buried at the bottom of an infinitely deep ocean. The ocean that is built from our responsibilities, our mortgages, our bosses, our schools, our governments, everything that puts a roadblock in between us and competence, us and our friends, us and our freedom. I try to be a child. And when adulthood gets in the way, I cry. I get scared. I want the childhood back. It's not easy. Because the world wants you to "act your age". So it becomes practice. It becomes exercise. But here are ten ways I still try to be a child every day. And every day I find my passion. And every day I know I have to repeat these tricks to find that child inside of me: - PLAYEvery day I have to do something for no other reason at all than that it's fun. If I don't do it, the no fun. What can you do that's fun? Play a game with someone else. Learn a magic trick. Sing. When people want me to meet at their office I suggest the local ping pong establishment instead. It's through Play that we get to know each other. That the children we left behind get to meet and together destroy the universe. - FREENobody paid Einstein to daydream about two people staring at each other, with one going through space as fast as he could. In fact, he was a clerk in a patent office and could've stayed that way forever. Nobody paid Ada Lovelace to imagine a world of computers 12o years before one existed. She was supposed to just be a stay-at-home Countess and enjoy her luxuries. Every day I know I have to pay the bills to live. But I also have to do something totally free in order not to die. The world of money is a tiny subset of the world of imagination. - WHY?Why did the micro-cultures on one island