 house will get sold and you have to move.So there is no judging here. But I like flexibility in my life. I like to know I can move. And in my area, so many houses are for sale, I always know I can find a good place to rent.And with so many houses for sale, I know those people are stuck while I am not.Will it always be that way? No. Things cycle. But America has a tendency to overbuild. And then people overbuy. And then rentals are available.I always look at rentals. Right now there are better houses for less rent available within a mile of my house. But I like my landlord and house and I dont blow a good thing if I have it.I live right on the river and can watch the leaves turn green and in the summer there are giant parties in the park next to my house.And on Sunday nights they show movies outside next door and the whole town shows up. I watched Bladerunner.But I still want the ability to pick up and move at a moments notice if I want to. Freedom makes me happy.PROPERTY RIGHTS ARE THE BASIS OF AMERICAMany people like to own real estate because of the word real. It feels more real than money.Or stocks. Or bonds.I get that. It is real. And in America, nobody can take your land from you if you own it.But not many people own their land. The bank owns it. Hence the $15 trillion in debt.And people will never own it (the 4.5 year average thing).But this is a judgment call again.I like to know I can live out of a single bag. Ive been doing that all my life.When I moved to NYC I lived out of a garbage bag. Before I got married I lived in a dive hotel. After I got divorced I lived in the same hotel.I like feeling like I could lose everything and survive. Maybe this is why I have lost everything sometimes. But its also how I keep surviving and learning more each time.This will sound corny so please skip to the next part: but property rights are not real.Loving who you are and where you are and what you are doing is the only thing that is real.Live in your heart and not your home and you will never feel lonely or the need to establish roots.Share that love with the people around you. And then, they also, will feel less need for roots.That is the best investment. That is the best return on investment. That is the best home to live in.The America Dream has us chained us to the land so they can feed us like pigs in a trough with debt, with factory/cubicle jobs that we cant escape because its so hard to move (until they kick us out with 2 weeks severance), with forced friends in our neighbors, with supposed roots for our kids even though the statistics show those roots are a lie.Freedom is more important than a dream.Everyone has the story. They have bought and sold three houses and made money on each of them.I believe them. Perhaps many people are phenomenal investors.Others live in a good, secure neighborhoods that they want their kids to grow up in.I believe those people also. But Ive also seen the pain theyve gone through when jobs were not as stable as they thought or marriages are not as stable as they thought and that mortgage wouldve been nice in their hands instead of in the banks hands.We need a little bit of breathing room in order to survive when the noose is put around our neck.WHAT DO I DO THEN?You can rent. Just like some houses are bad and some are good, some landlords are better than others. Like anything that is an important life decision, it takes research.You can find roots with a good landlord. You can even paint the house and knock down walls and do whatever you want.If you believe in housing as an investment, there are companies that just own houses that you can invest in on the stock market.So you get all the benefits of a long-term investment in housing and get your cash out in five seconds if you need it.But what should you do with all of that extra cash you have if you dont own a house?Maybe nothing. Having cash is a nice thing. It reduces stress.But also you can invest in yourself. Or companies that are growing.If companies arent growing, I can tell you that housing prices will go lower. Because housing prices depend on the stability of employment.By definition then, companies will always grow faster than housing, in aggregate.Average income for people age 18-35 has done from $36,000 to $33,000 in the past twenty years. While debt has increased 100x. Not good.WHY DO PEOPLE ALWAYS ARGUE FOR HOUSINGTheres something called investment bias. Your brain thinks, Ive just made the biggest investment of my life so it must be right.Your brain loves you. It doesnt want you to think it made a bad decision for you. Its scared you wont use it anymore.So it tells you, that $200,000 down was the best decision you ever made. Everything else involves flushing money down the toilet, or no roots, or no stability! So its hard to consider the alternatives.Its a lot of work to own a house also. Have you ever spent time in the Death Star? I mean Home Depot. That place is huge. And I only need that one special color of paint.But where is it? The stormtroopers at Home Depot are never around when you need them.And what about that snake that can clean my toilet. Where is it? And how do I use it? And is it gross? Why do they call it a snake?Its no wonder that plumbing is one of the highest paid professions in America.And how long does it take to paint a house. Or who do I go to? And will they overcharge me if they pave the driveway?Did I calculate that into my total cost of owning a house?I like to sit in the garden area of Home Dept. Theres thousands of flowers and plants and it smells like dirt.To be honest, thats the closest I will ever get to hiking  sitting in the garden area of Home Depot.Im pathetic. And I flush my rent down the toilet. And I dont have roots. And I refuse to fix my toilets or shovel my driveway or deal with my flooded basement. All I like to do is read.And one day Ill move. Maybe next to an ocean. And take a walk on the beach. Last week, a friend told me the sun sets in the West.Maybe one day Ill move to California. Five years until my youngest graduates.Ill sit on the porch and watch the sun set and have cash in the bank (I hope) while someone is fixing my toilet.When the sun has 15 minutes yet to live that day, maybe I will feel like Im falling in love.Read More: Why I Am Never Going to Own a Home Again - Altucher Confidential