 I've interviewed at least 100 dominatrixes. Which makes me an expert on something but I'm not sure what.The math I use to get there is straightforward. The first time I had to do an interview it was for my HBO web series "3AM" 18 years ago. The idea was this: if you were out on a Tuesday night at 3 in the morning, I was going to find you and interview you.Why Tuesday? Because Saturday is too obvious (you were enjoying a night out on the town). And Tuesday, well, let's just say you were up to something. No judgement!I was really scared the first time. And the second time. And the 100th time. And 18 years later during podcasts I'm still nervous every time I'm about to interview someone.But for those 3am shows I would pretend I was an actor and that I knew the people and I would just go up to them and say, "Hey, how's it going?"I wore my HBO jacket and there were video people behind me so the subjects would get a little bit shocked and then I would explain what I was doing.The key was this: within the first 15-30 seconds I had to get them so comfortable that they had to be able to tell me their deepest secrets.People were cheating on their spouses (both men and women), people were looking for drugs, or were teenagers scared of their parents and police, or were simply completely insane. There were drug dealers, prostitutes, every sort.One time I took my assistant with me to be the production assistant on a shoot. She said (I love you Trish), "Are you like a dominatrix magnet or something?" since we had so many professional dominatrixes we would run into and who were eager to be interviewed. At least 5% of the people I approached randomly.I did this for three years and as I always tell people: I turned over every rock in NYC. There's nothing I didn't know about what goes on in NYC at three in the morning.I went to Riker's Island (a jail), I went to sex clubs, I went to late-night factories, I went to illegal radio stations, I pretended to be homeless for weeks at a time, I went to buildings with floor after floor of cubicles with naked women doing online sex charging by the second (and this was 1997).And often I would hear the saddest horror stories of what cast people out from the day into the night, probably never to return to normal lives again.I would release four interviews a week. In a sense, I was podcasting from January 1996 to January 1999. Four interviews released a week, chosen out of about 15 interviews a week. A little over 2000 interviews in all. 5% of that equals about 100 dominatrixes.And for 100% of them, I had to get my interviewees comfortable in 30 seconds or less. After 30 seconds they start throwing bottles at you. Or chasing you. Or even worse, just simply ignoring you.For my first few weeks of interviews, HBO made me bring a bodyguard. But when we were chased out of a transvestite club once he was at least three blocks ahead of me. He was a track star in college. Or in the FBI. Or some military unit he claimed.Then I would make my interviewees sign a release form. It wasn't required but I asked them to put their phone number on the release form. I will admit that on only three occasions I used the phone number later to ask a girl out on a date. After all, they were already comfortable talking to me. And that HBO jacket had to come in handy somehow.A podcast is different but also the same. The similarity is that they have to get comfortable with you. Sometimes its hard.Coolio told me the other day he thought I was obnoxious at first. But then he said at the end, "but you got me to reveal some real deep shit I wasn't planning on talking about. Kudos." That was like milk chocolate spilling into my brain.Here's what I do and what I DON'T do.A) PREPARATION:This past week I did 4 podcasts. For the four podcasts I read 11 books. I read all the books written by each person I'm interviewing. I highlight parts of each book and make comments on the highlights. I then write down in my notepad what question I might want to ask based on that highlight.Most of the time I highlight something because I learned something incredible from it, hence the very reason the person is on my podcast - because I wanted to learn from them and they are heroes of mine.In one case this week I had to track down a book released in the UK but not yet released until next month in the US.In another case, the person I was interviewing didn't have a book out but I read through all the articles he was involved in and the media strategy he had helped set up for his company.I also watch every interview the person has ever done.This is critical because I want to make sure I don't repeat any questions they are already bored of answering. The last thing I want is for them to think, "ugh, I can't believe he asked me that".I know from prior interviews I've watched what questions they've been asked and what questions they are totally sick of.Also by looking at prior interviews, I know the stuff they are just beginning to reveal and have never revealed before. This gives me ideas of where to explore further.B) GET THEM COMFORTABLEWhen I interviewed Peter Thiel, at first he was busy so I had to call back. When he got on the phone my first question was, "So what have you been up to today?" And that led to a fun conversation.Sometimes I say, "I've been looking forward to this but first I have a beef to settle with you." And the "beef" is usually a story where we had briefly intersected and I make fun of it. With Jim Norton I had to remind him of what people thought of him the day he started fourth grade