 is the right temperature, does it have a chance of reaching the other side. At reaching you. E) LAUGHTERLaughter is before language. It's primal communication. If there was a rustling in the bush: could it be a lion? Or is it just the wind?Once a mammal discovered it was just the wind, an instinctive laugh would come out, informing the other members of it's tribe that there is nothing to worry about. Danger transforming into relief is communicated via laughter. This is true for at least the last 2 million years. Everyone is in danger constantly. How many people around the world woke up at three in the morning today, scared of something that will probably never happen. I know I did. Getting people to laugh tells people the danger is ok. You're safe here. In this spot, right now. With me. F) VULNERABILITYI used to go on a lot of news TV shows. I'd be on these panels and they'd tell us when to argue with each other. I'd be sitting in a dark room in the studio with a camera facing me and an earpiece in my ear and ever now and then a voice would say, "Ok, argue now!" And we all had to be perfect. Nobody was allowed to say, "I don't know". I was always so scared because I never knew. But I foolishly felt like being on TV was a good thing. So, like everyone else (although that's not an excuse), I'd pretend to know. And then we'd all go home. Great job! But when I took a shower I felt like I could never get clean. So many things I got wrong. So many times I tried to be perfect and couldn't handle it unless I was perfect. To the point that perfectionism almost led to a very imperfect suicide. Deep down, we're all trying to figure this out. Why are we here? Why did this happen to me? How can I do better? When we admit it, share it, question it - we can communicate with that primal emptiness inside of everyone that just needs to be heard. It's in those moments of vulnerability that we become the best communicators. G) SILENCEHow can silence be a way to communicate? We all think about 60,000 thoughts a day. The only problem is: 95% of those thoughts are the same thoughts as yesterday. Silencing some of those thoughts would result in less stress, less anxiety, fear, regret. We speak about 10,000 words a day. What if we spoke one half of that? Whenever I write a book I try to go on a silent retreat. Not to get rid of distractions. To get rid of me! When you speak, you spill your energy everywhere. It disperses into the sky. Into nothingness. Here's a good trick to try: When someone is talking to you, if you are already thinking of a response while they are still talking, then you aren't listening. Let them finish. They have something to say to you. ----There's other skills of course: sales, languages, building things...I don't know. I'm not really good at most things that people consider valuable skills. I'm shy and like to sit in my room and I'm afraid to meet new people. But I force myself to because I think, "this will take me out of my comfort zone." And then I will have something new to say. Then I can maybe help someone. Then I will have an answer to the only question that is ever important. At the end of the night, when the lights are out, when there's nothing left to say or do or think, to just wonder, even if there is no answer: "Who did I help today?"