 FINANCIAL FRIDAYS: THE WTF! ON THIS STOCK MARKET 'CRASH'Shit, I'm about to break all the rules of selling and marketing but I don't care. People need to stop being fooled. It has to end.I write every day. I publish something here and on my email list maybe 5-6 times a week.These emails are very important to me and they are about 500-2000 words. Short, to the point, life lesson, anecdote, and what I love to do more than anything in the world.The emails go for free to about 200,000 people a day.But there are some messages people need to know to further enhance the work they are doing, whether its financial or starting a business, or part of my daily practice of physical mental emotional and spiritual health.I put my heart into that also.So I write up to 10,000 words once a month for that. That's probably too much. Almost like a mini-book. Too big for a Quora answer. For instance, this month, I write about 20 reasons for the crash and I found a super guest writer to basically write the BIBLE of angel investing.And I have about 10 people helping me research, do the tech infrastructure for this, etc. And the whole thing I sell for about $5 and some renewal rate a year from now with money back guarantees.But I'm not writing this to sell. If the guys I work with find out (and they will once I hit publish), they will probably be upset at me.I'm sorry: Jeff, Mark, Adam, Dillon, Tim, Emily, Mae, Mary, David, Garin, Peter. Don't buy it. I don't care.I just want to tell people how much BS the news vomits every day and how it's effected the markets.Instead of the 20 reasons I wrote this month, let me give the 3 or 4 most important (all 20 took up 5000 words, with another 5000 words on angel investing).A) CHINAChina growth is slowing. So the Wall Street Journal, which I used to write for, is saying "Chinese economy reeling".Oh my god. Please please please. Stop that.China is GROWING. It used to grow 10% per year because it was communism and 2 billion people were farmers.Now it's "going down" to 7% growth.Horrors! The world is over.But what if it continues?Who cares!?Guess how much we "sell" to China per year. I put "sell" in quotes because newspapers make it sound fancy and say we "export". BS economics writers.Less than 1% of our Gross National Product is sales is to China.So even if CHINA DISAPPEARED COMPLETELY the US would still have a growing economy.Oh, did I mention China is not disappearing. It's GROWING. At a faster rate than the United States.B) INTEREST RATES MIGHT RISEAre you kidding me?Let me explain simply please.The Fed lends money to banks. When the Fed rate is low, savings rates are low.When savings rates are low, people put money in higher risk stocks than in savings.When savings rates are high (7%+) people put money in their savings account because its safer (it really is).That's why people say "when interest rates go up, stocks go down."Oh my god! (sorry for the repeat).The Fed Rate is at 0.25% and has been for six years.They SHOULD raise it to 0.5% or even 2%. Nobody is saying, "Oh, now I should move out of the stock market and get 2% savings rates.And, by the way, the Fed only raises rates when every indicator suggests that companies are growing at a fast rate.Let's look at recent times the Fed raised rates. Through most of the 90s (the markets went straight up). 1999, the Nasdaq 100 went up almost 100% over the next year (and value stocks continued to go higher ever after the crash).From 2002-2007 the Fed raised rates every change it could get. The market went constantly up.And none of that was from such a low base of 0.25%.So newspapers, PLEASE STOP LYINGC) IS THIS LIKE 2009?In March, 2009, the market hit an all-time low.Fortunately, I ended it and saved the world. No kidding.I lived