 are the head of sales, the project manager, the secretary, and the head of HR. Wait, in each case, until you absolutely overwhelmed before you start hiring people. Once you hire someone there is a world of S**& that you have to deal with. Personalities, fights, politics, disagreements, gossip, etc. And, the most basic - they might do a bad job. A worse job than you would do because you are the OWNER and they are not. By the way, being overwhelmed is a good thing. It means you have revenues, profits, or users. Then you are allowed to hire people. The best business I've ever started is when there was only one other person besides me. We started our first product for $2000. We sold eight months later for $10,000,000. We outsourced almost the entire business (by the way, the one bad thing about this is that Google wouldn't buy us because of this).It's not as good as it sounds. I'm an idiot and lost a good chunk of the money later. But at least I didn't hire anyone.  G) CLEAR ROLESA lot of partnerships fail because there are no clear roles defined. Like, the two partners are "co-CEOs" so nobody knows who to talk to. This is BS. There have to be clear rules. I have a lot of examples. I'll give one I'm dealing with right now. These are the roles of the founders: one person is a scientist - he makes the product. one person is an accountant - he does the booksone person is a good business guy and has been involved in startups - he makes the deals and finds partnershipsone person is good at raising money - he raises money and I forget who is CEO. One of them. It doesn't matter. Each is the final world on what he is good at. You can even divide up equity equally according to categories like this (and so some people might fit into more than one category so they get more equity): - made product- raised money- made sales- manages people- had the ideaThat's a sample. Not every business is structured so neatly but many are. When I was in a business where we did not have clear rules over who made the final decision, it was a mess. We ended up selling that company but now NONE of the original partners speak to each other anymore. We got lucky we sold that one.  H) DON'T TESTIf you have a product idea, and you love it, and all your friends tell you its great, don't forget to test. Let's say your product is "protein water" - clear water that has zero calories and 30 grams of protein. BAM! Seems like an amazing idea. Put a Facebook ad up, with the design of the water bottle and say, "30g PROTEIN WATER". Simply see if people click. If noboody clicks, then you have a bad idea. If a lot of people click, then it's a great idea. This is one example. But this is a very important side-rule that most people don't believe: GOOD ENTREPRENEURS ARE RISK-ADVERSEBefore you risk, test. Before you leave your job, have customers. Before you hire people, have money in the bank. Before you even create you product, test it. Smart people test. Smart people don't take risks. I) WORRYING ABOUT STUFF YOU DON'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUTToo many people think they have to hire lawyers and accountants and make a logo before they even start their company. Don't do BS stuff. Start your company, make your product, see if people want it, repeat. That's it. One company I don't think I even incorporated until they day before I sold it. Don't have too many meetings. Don't debate forever your list of values. Or your marketing slogan. If you make something people want, then the sale is easy, and you have a company. Period. No matter what your slogan is. So many people ask: but should we be an "S" Corp in Delaware. I don't care. It has nothing to do with how much money you will make. Believe in your product. Believe in helping your customers. Believe you can do it cheaply and always over-deliver and (repeating) HELP. Be risk-averse. Hold onto your money. I can throw some stuff in here about don't get bad investors but that's really a different topic. If you avoid all the mistakes above, then you will have a good shot at having a good business. Trust me on this. I've seen a thousand businesses. You will have a good one if you follow the above ideas (or I should say, avoid the above mistakes). Oh, one more. J) HAVE SEX WITH EMPLOYEESThis is a really bad idea. Employees are there to help you get customers, deliver to customers, follow up with customers, and handle the running of your business. Once you start having sex with them, all sorts of bad things happen. I'm not even kidding here. You might fall in love with them. You might have to deal with legal stuff. Other employees might get upset. And once one employee gets upset, that "upset-ness" spreads like a disease. Whenever an employee gossips badly about you, you have to fire them or the disease spreads. This is what starts to happen once you start having sex with employees. I've seen great startups totally blow it because of this. Don't do it. -----There's a lot of other things that can go wrong, but this is the top. For instance, did you know its important to have a great relationship with your landlord?How come? Because he has to approve if you sell your company. Because suddenly he has a new tenant. But this is a small thing. There are many small things. Running a business is hard. These are the top 10 out of 100 (or 1000) mistakes I have seen. Good luck. And, seriously, don't do what I would do.