 project to them and all the traction they were getting, etc and then made an offer, Since this is a different direction, Id be willing to buy all of your shares back so nobody will lose any money.100% of his investors said, YES! GIVE IT BACK! and so he bought all of his investors shares back. Now, Ev Williams, the founder of Twitter (which was the side project), is a billionaire as a result.Nobody knew. Nobody knows. You have to try multiple ideas and see which ones gets the excitement of customers, employees, and you can see that people are legitimately using it and excited by it.When I started Stockpickr someone once wrote me and said, please block me from the site. Im too addicted to it and its ruining my life. Thats when I had a sense that I had a halfway decent idea. And that was one of ten ideas I was trying simultaneously. The rest failed.So dont be afraid to test, fail, test, fail, try again, repeat, improve, test, fail again, and keep improving. The way to keep improving? Keep coming up with ideas for your business and for other new businesses.As your idea muscle improves, so will your ability to fail quickly. Failing quickly is a better skill than executing quickly.J) WHEN DO I SHUT DOWN AN IDEA?In 2009, I started The Leading Love Site on the Net. It was going to be a dating website where your twitter feed was your profile. Everyone I spoke to say, thats a great idea! I had already raised money and was raising more.Then, on the day I was going to close the fundraising round I woke up shaking. I had this vision of myself a year from now explaining to all of the investors why it wasnt going to work. I returned all the money. I was out the money I had spent to create the website.I can guess why it was a bad idea (people on dating sites want to be anonymous, for instance) but I didnt really know. I just knew I had to return the money.When your idea muscle is developed and the other legs of the daily practice are fully developed (Phyiscal, Emotional, Spiritual) youll have a better idea when you should shut things down. When you are shutting them down for the right reasons. When you are failing quickly as opposed to self-sabotage or fear of success or youre just stupid.That was the last time I tried to start a business. Since then Ive done very well by not starting businesses. Starting businesses is not the only way to make money in this world. There are many ways.K) HOW DO YOU KEEP TRACK OF YOUR IDEAS?I make a list of ideas and then I usually just throw them out.The whole purpose is to exercise the idea muscle. I know most of the ideas are bad ideas so I theres no sense keeping them around.If one of the ideas is good then I will probably remember it and build on it for the next day. Sometimes its kind of funny when I come across an old list of ideas to see what I was thinking. Every now and then I think I find a good idea in my old lists but its rare.And then what do I do with that rare good idea? Probably nothing.L) ARE ALL OF YOUR IDEAS BUSINESS IDEAS?No. Almost never. Its hard to come up with over 3000 business ideas a year. Im lucky if I come up with a few business ideas.The key is to have fun with it. Else you dont do it. People avoid things that are not fun.Heres some types of lists I make:IDEA SEX. Combine two ideas to come up with a better idea. Dont forget that idea evolution works much faster than human evolution. You will ALWAYS come up with better ideas after generations of idea sex. This is the DNA of all idea generation.OLD TO NEW: 10 old ideas I can make new. (Dorothy, Wall Street, etc). Similar to idea sex.10 ridiculous things I would invent (the smart toilet, etc).10 books I can write (The Choose Yourself Guide to an Alternative Education, etc).10 business ideas for Google / Amazon / Twitter / you10 people I can send ideas to10 podcast ideas I can do. Or videos I can shoot. (Lunch with James, a video podcast where I just have lunch with people over Skype and we chat).10 industries I can remove the middleman.10 Things I Disagree With that everyone else assumes is religion (college, home ownership, voting, doctors). Or, for any one of those ideas. 10 ideas why!10 ways to make old posts of mine and make books out of them10 ways I can surprise Claudia. (Actually, more like 100 ways. Thats hard work!)10 items I can put on my 10 list ideas I usually write list10 people I want to be friends with and I figure out what the next steps are to contact them (Azaelia Banks, Im coming after you! Larry Page better watch out also.)10 things I learned yesterday.10 things I can do differently today. Right down my entire routine from beginning to end as detailed as possible and change one thing and make it better.10 chapters for my next book10 ways I can save time. For instance, dont watch TV, drink, have stupid business calls, dont play chess during the day, dont have dinner (I definitely will not starve), dont go into the city to meet one person for coffee, dont waste time being angry at that person who did X, Y, and Z to you, and so on.10 Things I Learned from X. Where X is someone Ive spoke to recently or read a book by recently. Ive written posts on this about the Beatles, Mick Jagger, Steve Jobs, Bukowski, the Dalai Lama, Superman, Freakonomics, etc.Random: 10 Things Women Totally Dont Know About Men. (that turned into a list of 100 and Claudia said to me, uhhh, I dont think you should publish this).Todays list: 10 More Alternative to College I can Add to my book: 40 Alternatives to College.10 Things Im Interested in Getting Better At (and then 10 ways I can get better at each one).10 things I was interested in as a kid that might be fun to explore now. (Like, maybe I can write that Son of Dr. Strange comic Ive always been planning. And now I need 10 plot ideas).A problem I have and ten ways I might try and solve it. This has saved me with the IRS countless times. Unfortunately, the Department of Motor Vehicles is impervious to my super powers.This is just a sample. Every day, 10 ideas. The other day, 10 ways I can release more endorphins into my body. Today is, 10 ways I can help people build their idea machine. Tomorrow is 10 Ways I can turn my next book into a webinar for Oprah. The day after that: 10 things I can talk about in my next talk on May 3 (which means, developing an entire standup comedy act from scratch since I have a rule, if its not funny, then a tree fell in the forest and it didnt make a sound.)M) IS THE IDEA MUSCLE THE MOST IMPORTANT PART OF WHAT YOU CALL THE DAILY PRACTICE?No! They are all EQUAL.Imagine youre sitting on a stool. By the way, I only see stools in bars because you have to be drunk to sit on a stool. Its so uncomfortable. And then invariably, someone falls off a stool and then half the people laugh and half the people say is he ok? but everyone crowds around because we smell blood.So, now youre on a stool with four legs. If someone pulls away one of the legs you might still balance and the stool stays up but its tricky. If someone pulls two legs off, youre down for the count.The Daily Practice is to be: Physically, Emotionally, Mentally (the idea muscle), and Spiritually healthy.If you arent physically healthy you wont come up with ideas. Youll be coughing and vomiting.If you are around people who hate you, you wont come up with ideas. Because they will be yelling at you while you are trying to think.And if you arent feeling grateful and calm in your life on a regular basis, then you will be anxious and it will be harder to come up with ideas.So all four parts of the Daily Practice work together to come up with great ideas.N) DO I REALLY DO THIS EVERY DAY?Lets say you get tired for a day of writing ideas. Try something different. The key is to keep activating parts of your brain that have atrophied.Sometimes if I dont feel like writing down a list of ten ideas Ill do something else.Like Ill draw ten eyes.Or Ill make a collage.Or Ill take photographs of the ten most beautiful women I see today. Or the ten ugliest men (if I take picture of the ten most handsome men then I might get jealous and thats a whole other thing Id have to deal with).Or I might come make ten prank calls (well, when I was a kid I did that. I never do that now! Maybe).O) IS IT IMPORTANT TO READ BEFORE WRITING?I dont know. But I do. Heres what I do:At any given point I have about 10-20 books on my to go list. Books that I can just pop in and continue reading.Every day I read at least 10% of a non-fiction book that gives me tons of new ideas, an inspirational book, a fiction book of high-quality writing, and maybe a book on games (lately Ive been solving chess puzzles). And then I start writing.Right now the inspirational book is The Untethered Soul. The non-fiction book is Antifragile. The fiction book is Blind Date (Kosinski) and the games book is actually my chess app (Shreder) which has non-stop puzzles. But this list changes almost every day.P) HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE?It takes at least six months of coming up with ideas every day before you are an idea machine.Then your life will change every six months. Ive said this before but my life is completely different than it was six months ago, and six months before that, and so on. So different there is no way I couldve predicted the differences.Six months ago I had no podcast. Now its a big part of my day. Six months before that, Choose Yourself had not come out. Six months before that, several I had not yet gone on several board seats that have done well for me. And so on.Q) DO I GIVE MY IDEAS AWAY FOR FREE?When you come up with ideas for someone else, always give ALL the ideas away for free if you think they are good ideas (remember: six months).I read recently one person said to give HALF of your ideas away for free and make them pay for the other half.This is very bad. This guarantees you will only come up with bad ideas. Because you will hoard your ideas. You will develop a SCARCITY COMPLEX around your ideas.Ideas are infinite. But once you define your capacity of good ideas (half) then they instantly become finite for you. Not for anyone else. But just for you, your ideas will be finite.If you stick to an abundance mentality, and be grateful for the ideas that are flowing through you, then they will be infinite. Where they come from, nobody knows. But they will be infinite and lucrative for you.So give ideas for free, and then when you meet, give more ideas. And if someone wants to pay you and your gut feels this is a good fit, then give even more ideas.R) I KEEP COMING UP WITH IDEAS AND THEY KEEP FAILING. WHAT DO I DO?Theres this cult of failure that has popped up recently. That you need to fail to succeed.This is not true. Failure really sucks. You dont want to fail. There is an easy way to solve this. Take the word fail out of your vocabulary.Everything we do in life is a success. We breathe, we love, we practice kindness, we deal with other human beings. We improve. We have experiences. This is magnificent and abundant success. Just even being able to try new things is something to celebrate every day. To smile at another person. To play.Most things I try to do dont work out as I planned. But who am I to predict the outcomes of my preparation. My only job is to prepare.Everybody, EVERYBODY, is a poor predictor of outcomes. From the weatherman, to the stock analyst. But we can all be good at preparation.And once I prepare, I show up at the starting line. Then the whistle blows, the race begins, I try my hardest with the most amount of integrity, and the results are not up to me.Then I go back and learn from the race, I prepare more, I love more, I celebrate more, and I shop up for the next race. The whistle blows, and eventually good things happen. Preparation leads to Faith in yourself.I used to think good things never happen. I saw my father die without anything good happening to him. I thought my fate was going to parallel his. But every moment, this moment while you are reading this, you get to choose abundance, gratitude, kindness, integrity, goodness. Only you get to choose what is in your universe.When you dont choose, you excuse.S) IS IT REALLY WORTH IT TO BECOME AN IDEA MACHINE?Every day I come up with ideas. I havent had a business since 2009. And it failed, as mentioned above.Since then Ive made more money than I know what to do with because I come up with ideas for people, for companies, for me, for people who have no idea who I am, for random anonymous things.I then get invited to share my ideas. Sometimes I get paid for them. Sometimes I give them for free. Sometimes I get more introductions to people and sometimes I get a chance to advise companies that do well and make me money. And sometimes I write books.When youre an idea machine, everything you look at breaks down into a collection of ideas, just like physical objects ultimately breakdown into collections of particles if your eyes were subatomic microscopes. Your eyes and brains become sub-idea microscopes that see the ideas that become the building blocks for everything in society.See them, build them, change them, seed them, birth them, love them, live them. Ideas are the dark matter of the universe. We know its there but only those in the know can see them.  What do you do once you become an idea machine?This is what I dont know the answer to because you are the master of your life.Now you have super powers. Now youre ready to take your unique place in the world. You will know how to get to the Justice League satellite that orbits the Earth and solves problems at a moments notice.You will know what to do. I dont know. Nobody else knows. Youll do it and the world wont be the same.Whew. That was long. If you are still interested in reading more though, you can check out some of my other posts on my site:How to be THE LUCKIEST GUY ON THE PLANET in 4 Easy Steps FAQ on How To Become an Idea Machine 