 (he took all the courses and tests but of course could not get a degree) many of them said, "yes. He has initiative." Many schools put their curriculum online. Then there are online-only schools like code academy, lynda, coursera, udemy, creative live, fedora, etc etc. where you can take GREAT courses. 3) OPPORTUNITY COSTI loved computers. But what if, instead of spending five years learning the academic version of computers (and then still having to take remedial classes), I had just simply started working with computers? Maybe even starting a business? Who knows?Many other well-known software companies started by 19 or 20 year olds started that way. What if I had done it? Instead I had to wait 5 years before even considering it because i was using the most valuable time in my life to take classes that taught me nothing. I'm not bitter (see the Pros) but I often wonder what would have been different. What if you are not a scientist? Doesn't matter. My daughter wants to study acting. Why can't she just spend that time going to auditions and getting real roles. I spoke to Mark Messick recently. He's 16 years old, dropped out of school at 11, and now makes $4000 a month writing books. Living the dream. He still goes to extracurricular activities at his school to maintain his friendships, but other than that he is light years ahead of his classmates in education and opportunity. 4) BUT WHAT ABOUT THE LIBERAL ARTS? There was a study done: quiz students 1 minute after they get out of class and then 50 minutes after they get out of a class. After 50 minutes they had almost zero retention of what they learned in the class. The only way to learn something is to have a passionate interest in it, then learn it, then repeat it, then try to teach it to someone else. This is not something taught in school. Kids are taught facts and not questions. And yet questioning the world is how all knowledge is learned. After college, 80% of people never pick up a book again. If you just read 5 pages a day (10-20 minutes of time. The time it takes to read People Magazine) of something you are interested in, you'll read 1800 pages more per year than everyone else. For the next 50 years. This is a good way to learn "liberal arts". 5) BOGUS INCOME STUDIESMany universities, to tout their benefits, have done the exact same study. People who got a degree, 20 years later, have made up to $500,000, give or take, more in their career then people who didn't have a degree. This is a spurious study. It has no control group. It's based on a demographic from the 1970s and 1980s when people from middle class families went to colleges and people from lower-class families, often didn't. This could be the entire reasons for the income difference but the studies need mention that. Here's a study: take everyone who got accepted to Harvard. Tell half of them you can't go to college ever. Instead, get your four year head start on making money. Then see who has more money 20 years later. 6) ITS NOT A SAFETY NETI ask my kids: why do you think it's good to go to college. Despite my insistence (maybe because of it) they still think it's a good idea to go to college. They both say the same thing, "it's a safety net so you can get a job". "Who tells you this?" They have no answer. It's just in the air. Forget the income numbers I cite above. There are changes happening. Just this past week, Ernst & Young, the accounting firm, said they will no longer care if an applicant has a college degree. Google has said they will stop looking at it. More and more people will stop looking at whether or not you have a college degree. WHAT SHOULD I DO INSTEAD? - Study many things. Study things you enjoy. If you don't enjoy anything, work on a charity or travel the world (yes, this costs money but it's cheaper than college). - Work at a job. If you want to be a doctor, work at a hospital and see if you really enjoy it. - Read every day. Five pages a day. - Learn these skills that are critical in every aspect of life but are never taught in college;  a. Sales b. Negotiating.  c. Well-being / Positive psychology d. Failure e. CommunicationI was at a dinner once. Someone who was working for Mayor Bloomberg asked me, "Would you let someone who didn't go to college give you brain surgery?" I said, "It's not about me. Would you let your son who has no interest in being a doctor, go to four years of school and another years of medical school just so he can operate on my brain even though he hates every minute of it and gets a million dollars into debt?" The average person has 14 different careers in their life. But now because of the costs and the debt, they are chained to that first career forever. Make the choices that allow you to cast away the chains as quickly as possible. You have a mission here. Fly out of the nest and accomplish it.