 at 40 Broad Street, directly across from the New York Stock Exchange.On March 9 I went out and bought 100s of Hershey's chocolate bars. Chocolate encourages people to take risks and makes people happy.Chocolate makes people feel like they are in love. And willing to take risks.All of the traders walking into the exchange were depressed. They were all looking at the ground.I started to approach with my chocolates. At first the guards stood up and gripped their guns. Dogs were barking.But then I handed out chocolates. Traders would look up, smile, and take the chocolate. Nobody refused me.And yes, that day was the bottom of the market. I documented on Twitter before I started handing out and when I was done.It's not bragging if it's true.BUT, I can't take all the credit.People blame the 2009 crash on the housing crash. This is not true.Housing prices peaked in 2006. The housing crash was only one small piece of the puzzle in the 2009 crash.I won't get into all the details of how banks account for mortgage debt.But basically, the FASB (financial accounting services board) changed the rules mid-flight on how banks should account for their debt. It was a horrendously strict rule change that forced banks out of business.When did they make this rule change? Late 2007, at the peak of the market. Then the real crash happened: the banking crisis.Everyone begged them to change the rules back. When did they change it back? March, 2009. Coincidence? The market went straight up.----In my newsletter coming out on September 1 I give 20. I wish I could give all 20 here but there's not enough space.But three is enough. We covered the main issues: China, Interest rates, and the post-traumatic stress everyone is feeling about 2009.I admit I simplified but this is just a simple post. I'm happy to answer questions and I go into more detail elsewhere.Finally I called a friend of mine who is the head of wealth management at one of the largest (top 3) banks in the world. He's the real deal and I just make status updates.He said, "our traders saw everything. Hedge funds trying to protect their fees would automatically trigger millions of sell orders and that kept triggering sell orders. But now it's done."I get it. I used to run a hedge fund. This is how it works.I don't know if it's done. Everyone says the "market crashed".Guess what. The market is FLAT in the past 12 months. What crash? So it can go up or down from here.But here's what we know at the very least:A) It's not about China!B) It's not about the Federal Reserves Interest Rate!C) And it's nothing like 2009!I wish I had room for all 17 items. But if all you know are these three, avoid the newspapers, take a deep breath and relax.The world is a hard place to live in.People always say, "you're the average of the 5 people you spend time with".But this is true also: "you're the average of the five things you read".If all you do is read newspapers (and the major ones lie the most) then you will mis-informed and in a constant state of anxiety.I know I was until I STOPPED reading them. Then I felt free.And then I ate chocolate. And then I fell in love.-----[Oh, and so Jeff, Mark, Adam, Mae, Mary, Emily, Tim, David, Dillon, Garin, Peter:Don't kill me, here's the link to the $5 offer where you get my book for free, the other 17 reasons, the text on angel investing, and all my back and forward issues, with a full money back guarantee.Choose Yourself For Success and Abundance 5s  The Altucher ReportBelieve me, I don't make anything on $5 and you can get your money back the second you download everything anyway. Or wait for September 1 when that 10,000 word letter goes out. Then get take your $5 back.Go for it. (sorry Jeff. Please don't be mad. This will help people). ]