 In 2003 I really disliked Warren Buffett. Like, I personally hated him. After 9/11 he stated Were going to have something in the way of a major nuclear event in this country. It will happen. Whether it will happen in 10 years or 10 minutes, or 50 years  its virtually a certainty.Everyone on TV nodded their head. Why not. The man is bigger than Jesus. But listen, WB (we call each other by our initials when we whisper softly to each other) charges for insurance AGAINST NUCLEAR ATTACKS. If I were a door to door life insurance salesman you know what I would say to you? You can die tomorrow! Why not protect your kids just in case? And I dont like when people, even Buffett, spread nuclear panic.But I forgave him. We hugged it out. Sort of. He never met me. And he wouldnt pick up the phone the one time I called him. But I took a cab to his house. Hey, wouldnt you take a cab to his house? If you could?(my masterpiece about Buffett. And the worst cover in the history of the printing press)I went to the 2003 annual meeting in Omaha. The Buffettpalooza. I think 20,000 people were supposedly there. No exaggeration. People got on line at 5am to get into the meeting. Krispy Kreme donuts were served on the line outside. Then, when it was time to go in, everyone RAN in order to get a good seat. But since they had just cleaned the floors everyone was slipping, falling, sliding as soon as they got into the building. It was exactly what would happen if everyone was running to escape, well, a nuclear attack.The night before the meeting there were some parties.I got invited by pretending to be media. I got a special badge. One guy had some numbers written on a napkin. What do you think Berkshires intrinsic value is? he asked me. He had all the parts of Berkshire written on a napkin with numbers written next to them. If you didnt know it, this is referred to as back of the napkin investing.I met another guy who told me a story. He bought 200 shares of Berkshire in 1976. The shares doubled in a year or so and he got nervous. So he sold 100 shares and used the proceeds to start a restaurant. The other 100 shares (assuming he still holds them because he told me he was never going to sell them) are now worth $18,000,000. So its safe to say that this guy I was speaking to is the worlds greatest investor ever. He bought 100 shares. Never had to even think again. About anything. He couldve watched MTV and eaten nothing but Pringles for the next 35 years. And now hes got $18,000,000 in the bank. But he has big regrets. Because he sold those other 100 shares on only a double.Oh well. We have some work to do here. Because its not easy to find unusual things about Warren Buffett. But if you didnt notice the picture above, I wrote THE book on Warren Buffett. The one book thats not even mentioned in the exhaustive list of books mentioned on buffetts Wikipedia page.1) House I really did drive right up to his house in a cab. Heres his house:Its a 5 bedroom house he bought in 1956 for $31,500.Its one house among many on a normal suburban block. The guy next door to him might as well be worth $0 and his next door neighbor is worth $60,000,000,000.00To me, that shows a lot of discipline. Every time in my life I've ever made moneyI would make mistake of buying a home. Heres a story about Buffett.Hes playing golf with a bunch of people and they all bet a dollar on a particular hole. Buffett wont bet. Why not, Warren? they ask him, youre worth a gazillion.He said, I never break my discipline.By contrast heres the house of his bridge partner Bill Gates:(a 9 building compound worth $150 mm)2) His worst investment ever I asked this question on Twitter earlier. I said, he lost his self-esteem and 20% in that order. Everyone came back with very smart responses: Conoco Phillips, where he lost $1 bb (but not 20% of his net worth (not even 2% of his net worth) and certainly not his self-esteem). The Berkshire Hathaway business itself was a bust. But the stock zoomed and Buffett made the bulk of his net worth on Berkshire Hathaway.No, the answer is a Sinclair gas station he bought in 1951 with a friend of his. On the weekends hed even squeegee peoples windows. But the Texaco station right across the street destroyed him. He lost $2000, when his savings was about $9600 at the time.He put a lot of work and love into that little baby and it all went down the drain. But that experience probably gave him the desire to have a more passive management style. A style he later mastered at Berkshire.3) He was rejected from Harvard Business SchoolIf you think about it, Harvard must have a pretty bad reputation by now. Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg hated it so much that they dropped out. And the one time they couldve landed the best businessman ever, they rejected him.Like most smart people, Buffett didn't even really want to go to college. He started out at Wharton but then switched back to his hometown college in Omaha because he didnt like it. Then, after being rejected by the best business school in the country, he went to Columbia.The reality is that people at the genius level (Buffett, Einstein, Gates, etc) have no use for college but some cases (Buffett)