 Every day I try to improve at the things I love. I love writing for instance. So I read a lot and try to write a lot. Some days I get better and some worse. The worse I get, the luckier I am. How come? Because it means I'm trying something stupid and seeing if I can get away with it. That's how I learn. "Getting worse" is powerful feedback. LUCKY PEOPLE are grateful for bad results. Because they use that feedback to get better at the things they love. - RELATIONSHIPS My second wife loves me I think. And if she didn't that would be okay also. I'm trying to get better at separating out results from love. I love her, so if she wanted to be somewhere else, I would love that about her. Then I will always be lucky in love. I am one of the ugliest people on the planet. And yet, because I practice good loving, then it's easy for me to be happy with all the relationships around me. And guess what then happens? Because of that, all of the relationships around me keep getting better. - FREEDOM. I can do whatever I want. I can't jump ten feet. But I don't want to. Don't make me. I'll say "no".I've been rejected by a lot of jobs and opportunities. I won't deny it. I wanted to do those things. But I have a trick: I diversify the things I want. Maybe I won't be a billionaire today. But I KNOW I will kiss someone today. And I KNOW I will sleep ten hours today. And I KNOW I will write most of today and maybe see my kids and maybe see a movie. Every day, because I diversify my choices, I find freedom in everything I do. And I never do anything I don't want to do. What if I had to go to a bad job! Many people have to go to jobs they don't like. I will tell you a story. A friend of mine was an artist. We were walking in the rain. He pointed down and said, "what do you see?" I said, "a puddle." He said, "ok, look again". I looked down and I saw a puddle, and I saw people reflected in the puddle. And I saw the sky reflected in the puddle. And I saw the chaotic edges of the puddle and how they were constantly changing. And I saw the edges of a rainbow creep into the puddle as it reflected the light in unusual ways. My artist friend taught me how to see. Art is the gap between bad luck and good luck. "A bad job" is the first answer. But the second answer is when you start to see. Can you create luck? Yes. I'll show you. If you've ever read me before you can stop reading now. Do this every day. But only 1% growth a day. Too much and it's too hard. Too litttle and it's not enough. It's like you don't care about luck. Physical: Just do 10 pushups a day, five times a day. After you do this for awhile. Maybe (the 1% growth) add a pushup. Or a squat. Or whatever. Sleep eight hours. Lucky people are always well-rested. How else will enjoy your luck. Eat well. Every cell on your body has come from something you ate over the past seven years. So make sure your body is all set for luck by eating well. What is eating well? You know! Don't deny it. Emotional: Be nice to the people around you. Find someone new to be nice to. Maybe 1 person a day. Just now I looked at an article I wrote in 2007. Someone wrote a nice comment on it. I never responded to the comment. So I looked up the person to see where they are now. And I wrote them a nice thank you letter. Thank you! Thanks! is a good way to get lucky. Mental: I started getting lucky when I sat down with a pad every day and I wrote down ten ideas a day. Every day...ten more ideas. Sometimes I would send the ideas to people. And then some of those people would call me and invite me to help them make those ideas. The more ideas I wrote, the better I got at it. It's like practice. Spiritual: I once met Thich Naht Hanh, the Buddhist monk who has been an anti-war protester since the 60s. He has seen so much sorrow. And so much pain. And yet he was smiling. Then he did a calligraphy in front of me. He drew a circle. And he spelled out the word: "smile". Spirituality is not about prayer or a god or a hope or a wish or meditation ("mad attention"). It's about: can you smile right now? If the answer is "yes", then you are practicing being spiritual. It's all practice. It's all about 1% improvement every day. How do I know there aren't people luckier than me in the world? I don't know. Maybe there are. But I doubt it. Because we're in a giant video game that I created. I put myself in here to play a character. I'm the only person alive. So that makes me the luckiest person alive. Smile! Flash!