 Well, read my writing. Why would I make that up? I was living on 40 Wall St. I was watching the traders go in and out of the exchange super-depressed. It was 2009. People were literally killing themselves at least once a day on my block. I wanted to do something about it. Nothing in the book is made up at all. So why would I make up that section. That section is almost stranger than fiction, which the truth often is. Hold on one second. I'm going to try to find the section and cut and paste it here so you don't even have to get the book to try and read it...one minute.....finding....OK. HERE. HAVE FUN WITH IT: (from Choose Yourself, middle of the book). Have you ever wondered why the stock market didnt just keep going down? Why it bounced at all from March 2009 until the day I am writing this, when the market is hitting all-time highs? Very simple--and I state this with all humility--I personally saved the US stock market. I moved to Wall Street in early March of 2009. Specifically, the corner of Broad and Wall in the building that was once JP Morgans bank. You may recall from your history books that the building was the site of the first major terrorist attack on the United States. On September 1, 1920, Italian anarchists exploded a bomb, killing 38, and injuring 143 (thank you Wikipedia. Thank you World Wide Web. Now I have every number I ever need for the rest of my life. My building, a bomb, 38 deaths). About 89 years later, at the worse possible time, someone decided to convert the building into apartments. The building was a ghost town. Nobody wanted to live on Wall Street. It was the black hole of capitalism. My building had bowling alley. A basketball court. A pool. A gym. And you couldnt give those apartments away. So, of course, I moved in. Directly outside my window: the world famous New York Stock Exchange. A huge flag lit up at night, projecting its negative shadow straight through my apartment. You couldnt find a more depressed group of people than the ones going to work every day at the New York Stock Exchange. But I loved living there. I felt like I was part of history. That maybe this would be a new start for me. I looked out my window and there was the New York Stock Exchange. I looked to the right and there was Federal Hall where George Washington was sworn in. I loved it. Which was an odd feeling, because everything else was going to hell. The S&P 500 was heading towards a 20 year low, where it reached the magically hellacious number of 666. I was losing more money than I thought