 I'm glad you asked, because someone recently asked me: Why is Failure Good?Failure is the worst thing possible. You feel sick. You feel like youre going to die. You feel like if you dont die you might kill yourself.There is absolutely nothing good about failure. And theres nothing you can pretend to learn from failure.Lately, weve been living in the Golden Age of Failure Porn. Everyone wants to share their story. Everyone wants to fail forward.You cant learn anything from failure because dont forget that every single moment in your past has added up to that one moment in your present - where you are lying on the floor moaning your painful and abysmal failure.Stop whining. And stop using the word failure. Blah!Here are better things to learn from. Failure has many cousins. Learn from one of the cousins:- CURIOSITY: When something happens and you dont understand why, then ask, Why?Keep asking questions. Clearly, something confusing happened. Ask and ask and ask.Guess what will happen: you will get answers. - EXPERIMENT: Sometimes people say Thomas Edison failed 999 times before he finally came up with the lightbulb on the 1000th try.This is a total lie. It is normal in a lab to experiment with many many materials before coming up with the right one.Oh! Youre experiment didnt work? Ok, change something and lets try a new experiment.- PERSISTENCE: I get asked: how do I market my book? Or my app? Answer: write another book. Write another app.The best way to get better, to get more known, to learn the subtleties of your art or your field or your sport, is to simply do it again.Persistence + Love = Abundance. - FORGIVENESS: I used to live in regret. One time I sold a business for $15 million. Within two years I had lost almost all of the money.And it wasnt money on paper. It was money in real life. If I tell you how I lost it you would hate me forever. Thats ok. But its not important for this.Failure is a word used to label a past event. Thats 100% up to you how you label a past event.When you label a past event failure it prevents you from moving beyond the past. You get stuck there. You keep time traveling to the moment of failure under the excuse that there is something to learn there.The thing you learn first is forgiveness. Forgive yourself. Then you move back to the present. Get healthy. Be around people you love. Start being creative again.- STUDY: When you get a question wrong on a test, a good student doesnt call it a failure.Its a pointer to one single question wrong on a test. Study a bit more next time and you wont get that