. And he took it to the next level right up until the world championship. For the first time in his life he played a different first move.His opponent, the older world champion had ONLY prepared for the one move Fischer ever did. So Fischer came up an entire new opening with a new first move. Gandhi took it to the next level. Every revolution before him was done with violence. He experimented. He had a vision. He felt that 300 milllion Indians didnt need to do violence. He was right, despite everyone disagreeing with him. Take the advice of everyone around you, and then take it to the next level. Practice taking it to the next level (because at first you wont be good). But do it over and over again and you will be THAT PERSON that knows how to take things above and beyond. 5) FAILURES TAKE ALL THE CREDITFailures are insecure. When they do their little stupid thing at work they want the credit. Give others credit all the time. Then you are the source of credit. Just like a bank. When people want more credit, who do they go to? They go to you! Just like they would go to the bank when they need more money. You look at the history of every company. The founders who never followed through and ended up not being successful (whatever happened to) are the ones who wanted credit too early on. They fought for it. They died for it. They cried for it. They went broke for it. Give credit. Be the bank. Be the source. 6) LACK OF INTEGRITYI dont mean be honest. Thats obvious. How do you take honesty and integrity to the next level? You become vulnerable. You admit mistakes before you have to. You offer people their money back when you've lost it and didnt have to. I was talking to Ev Williams who started Twitter. When his older company, Odeo, wasn't working out - he and his board decided to give everyone their money back before moving on. That's integrity. Nobody has ever given me my money back. You give advice and help people when you sincerely want them to do better. Do this every day. It adds up. No, it doesn't add up. It multiplies. It compounds. Theres negative integrity and positive integrity. Negative integrity is saying to your boss: I failed because I missed the train. Positive integrity is, I like your idea for A, B, C reasons but how about you give a chance to X, Y, and Z and I bet we can make your idea a huge success to your boss. And then you give your boss total credit. Remember, these rules dont live in isolation. Its all one big rule. Its all about you being a vessel for a vision. Visions live for centuries more than people do.7) NO MONEY MANAGEMENTTheres three skills in money: Making it. Keeping it. Growing it. Making it is what we deal with for a long time. We need to pay the bills. We need to reduce money anxiety in life. But many people who are failures think that once they make it, the job is over. I thought my job was over when I had millions in the bank. So I stopped being healthy. So I stopped being nice to the people around me. So I spent money on a penthouse apartment and bouhgt art and got a house in Atlantic City and started gambling after taking helicopters back and forth. So I put money in every investment possible just to impress people. And then I had $143 left and I was dead broke and blame myself for the deaths of at least two people. When you make money, keep it. Dont even invest it. Put it in the bank. Dont be greedy for more. You only need to get rich once. Unless you want to buy a basketball team you dont need to get rich twice. And only when you are confident you can Keep it, you can THINK about growing it. But that takes a year or two first of keeping it. Please trust me on this one. Almost every failure I know (and I know a lot) didnt fail because they couldnt make money. They are broke now because they couldn't keep it. 8) NO FOLLOW THROUGHI have a very good friend who is a brilliant brilliant scientist. Maybe the most brilliant man I know. I would tell him this to his face: you have no follow through. He has an idea. Everyone says its amazing! AMAZING! You are so SMART! He gets about 30% of it done. And then he is on to the next Brilliant idea. BRILLIANT! His kids live on food stamps. And every single one of his ideas is not just a million dollar idea. But a TRILLION dollar idea. Im not exaggerating. But he cant follow through. The next idea is always bigger. Thomas Edison didnt say, I did it! when he made the light bulb. He called up the mayor of New York and worked out a deal to light up downtown New York City. The first city in history to be lit up at night by electricity. He got paid for that. He made a company. He followed through. He got rich. If you have trouble following through, delegate. But dont forget the other rules above: Over deliver. Integrity. Health. etc. 9) THEY DONT HAVE NOTEBOOKS. I carry at all times a waiters pad. I have over 100 waiters pads. In my pocket right now is one. In the table next to where I sleep is one. Saul Bellow once said, you never have to rewrite what you write in the middle of the night. How many times do you think of a great idea and you think, this is so GREAT I will never forget it and then you forget it. It happened to me this morning. Claudia and I were talking last night and she said, You have to write this down! and I said, there is NO WAY Im going to forget this. Well, I forgot it. I pray to the gods of memory I will remember it but I forgot it. 10) THEY DONT LISTENI say, on average, 10,000 words a day. I already know the things Im going to say. Meaning: they are already in my head. And Im just vomiting them out. When you listen, you learn. When you learn, you get better. When you get better you start to have a vision, you start to over deliver, you get more creative, and all the other good things above. Im going on a word diet. 2500 words a day. MAX. I might not succeed (its an experiment) but Im hoping I learn more today. And tomorrow. Listening is a form of giving credit. It means you value the words of other. Listening is a form of integrity. Because everyone offers something, you acknowledge that. Listening is a form of improving relationships with others. Listening is a way to outsource good ideas since if you let many others talk, some of them will give you good ideas you might not have thought of. Buddha didnt start a major religion by talking. It started because he sat under a tree and listened. Jesus spent 40 days in a desert. Listening. Moses listened to his wife (err.I mean a burning bush). Everything that has moved history happened because of listening instead of talking. Talking inspires. But listening creates the inspiration. -I can say break all of the above rules is the final rule. But Im not going to say that. You know why? Because this is not bullshit. This is not about how to fail or to succeed. This is exactly how I failed and succeeded. You can do whatever you want. I will never know your truth. This is my truth.