 13 THINGS WAYNE DYER PERSONALLY TAUGHT MEI was scared to death. Wayne Dyer was going to come on my podcast. I read about ten of his books. I watched five or six of his PBS specials. The man has sold over 150 million books. He's inspired millions. He's already given 100s of interviews. What could I possibly ask him?I watched other interviews with him. I even spoke to his daughter about him. I wanted to be ready. I didn't want to ask the same questions everyone else was asking. "You have to interrupt him," Claudia told me, "or he will keep on talking." So probably the first thing is: I learned how to interrupt people. Afterwards, the guy who did the audio for the podcast said to me, "That was unbelievably inspiring." And then he quit his job. Wayne Dyer has worn many hats. He's been a therapist, a professor, a writer, a PBS fundraiser, to many a spiritual leader.I have no idea what he is. I think he wore many hats because in an interesting life, you do many interesting things. The dots don't always have to connect. To me he is the ultimate "Choose Yourself-er". He started out dirt poor, an orphan coming out of foster homes. He went to school, got his PhD, became a professor, and was so loved by his students he reached tenure by age 35, in 1975. Do you know what tenure is? It means the school has to pay you for the rest of your life. It means you never have to worry about a job or money again. You're set. So what did he do then? He quit.He had written a book "Your Erroneous Zones" and it failed in his eyes. It had sold 5000 copies. When a book sells 5000 copies the publisher typically wipes their hands clean (they have made a tidy profit) and says, "Ok, on to the next one." That wasn't good enough. He didn't want a publisher to choose whether he was a success or not. He quit his 100% safe job. Everyone said he was crazy and begged him not to. He bought out the rest of the inventory of books from his publisher and put them in the trunk of his station wagon.With his nine year old daughter sitting next to him he drove all over the country, from bookstore to bookstore, begging them to take his books. You choose yourself one choice at a time. You choose yourself every day. You choose yourself with all of your fears and hopes mixed together and nobody knows what's going to happen. But if you do it with a sense of mission, a belief in your vision, what happens may not be what you expect, but you will never say, "I wonder what would have happened?"He has sold over 100 million books since then. Before I did the podcast I spoke about Wayne Dyer to a friend of mine who I thought would be very skeptical. My friend is the CEO of a $200 million in revenues a year company. "Wayne Dyer is like a hero to me," he said and I was curious why. "Think of it this way: he's done 10 specials raising money for PBS. He's raised over $150 million for PBS." That is impressive, I said. "Yes, but that's not the point. PBS runs those pledge shows over and over. And PBS has higher ratings than all of the broadcast channels combined.Think about how much airtime and free advertising Wayne Dyer got for himself by doing those shows." I don't think that's why Dyer did those shows but it's interesting the perspective. There's nothing wrong with raising money, inspiring millions, and also helping yourself, is what the CEO was pointing out to me. If you go to my recent podcast list, the podcast is about two episodes ago. Here's 13 things Wayne Dyer told me that every day I learn from: A) DO WORK YOU BELIEVE IN SO MUCH YOU'D GO TO JAIL FOR ITWhen Your Erroneous Zones came out it was banned in all of the countries behind the Iron Curtain. So Dr. Dyer smuggled copies into Prague. Thats how much he believed in the message he was spreading.B) LOOK AT YOUR LIFE FROM A DISTANCEDr. Dyer grew up in an orphanage, an incredibly hard experience and one that many people might not be able to overcome. But difficult experiences are what sculpt the soul. Now he's thankful, he told me, for those experiences. C) GO TO THE PEOPLE. At the beginning of his career, someone told Dr. Dyer The only way to reach everyone in America is by getting on a nationally syndicated TV show. "No matter how many times he contacted the big shows, they rejected me every time."So he packed his car full of books and drove across the whole country to connect with people face-to-face. Today everyone wants to go viral. They want the internet to make them an overnight success. But sometimes you just need to work insanely hard and go to the people. One at a time, face-to-face."Viral" often is a disease you want to get rid of. But "connection" can lead to lifelong benefits. D) ARRANGE WHATEVER PIECES COME YOUR WAY. He said everyone today is so eager to blame their situation on the stock market or the economy. But whatever meager resources you have, make it work for you. Find a way to move forward. He said that since he was 9 years old hes never been unemployed, even if it meant he had to carry bags of groceries at