 Getting a degree wasted five years of my life. I got an undergraduate degree in Computer Science. Then I went to graduate school for Computer Science but I left after two years. I put in my 10,000 hours of programming. I knew how to build an operating system. I could take apart and put together a computer. If I lived in the 1800s I probably could invent computers. I thought I was good. When I got my first job in "the real world" I was a programmer. My second day on the job I crashed the entire network and lost everyone's email. My boss came into my cubicle (very embarrassing since everyone in the cubicles around could hear and would later gossip) and said, "We really want you to work out but it's not so we are going to send you to remedial school on computers." I drove two hours every day to go to a remedial class in computer programming. I learned how to program then and eventually started three software companies. The above is not saying "colleges are bad". There are many aspects. The above just says: here is what I learned, here is what good it did me. Did it even get me that first job? No. I failed the interview miserably. I knew the answers to none of the questions. What got me the job was this: After the interviews I was depressed. I went into the part right outside of work and there were people playing chess. I played one of the guys in chess. He's now a well-known poker player. I beat him. When I looked up, my boss's boss's boss (the one who gave me the toughest interview) was there. It turned out he was a very good amateur chess player. "I never saw anyone beat Ylon before" he told me. And then we took a walk around the park and talked about man y things other than work. Two weeks later he offered me the job. He even offered me a signing bonus. Later that day, my then-boss started yelling at me about something insignificant. He didn't know that I had just been offered a job. I held up my hand and said, "that's fine. I don't like to be yelled at, though, so I quit. Goodbye." He couldn't believe it. He apologized. He wrote me an email and apologized. I wrote back, "don't treat people how you don't want to be treated." And I still quit. Six years later when I was running a venture capital firm he even pitched me a deal. I said, "Let me call you back on that." And I never spoke to him again. So this is my story of college to establish some credentials. But let me tell you pros and cons. This is the honest truth: Pros: 1) You have sex a lot. There are no parents around. For me, I had a girlfriend for the first time. There's nothing to prevent you from doing anything you want. So you do it. A lot. 2) You drink. I had never had alchohol or drugs before college. By the end of my three years in college (I graduated a year earlier thanks to summer classes because I wanted to save money) I had gotten trashed many times and had tried marijuana and LSD. 3) For the last time in your life you continue to make friends who are your exact same age and demographics. When I was 19, my friends were 19. When I was 20, my friends were 20. Now I'm 47. My friends range in age from 24 to 84, all different nationalities and sexual preferences, etc. This is real life. College is just extended high school. I can't think of any other "pros". What about an education. I've been reading a few books a week since I was 23. It wasn't until I left college that I learned to appreciate reading. When you are force-fed books to read and facts to remember it's very hard to enjoy them. Imagine being locked in a cage and force-fed chocolate all day. You'd soon get sick of it. NEGATIVES1) COST and DEBTThis is usually cited as the biggest negative. It isn't the biggest negative but I will put it here anyway. The average college-educated person age 18-35 made $36,000 a year in 1990. Now that same average person makes $33,000. This is taken right out of tax data. And yet, student loans have gone up from almost nothing to $1.4 trillion. If you are 25, have a great idea that can change the world, and want to start a company, how will you do it if now you have to be chained to a cubicle to pay back your debt? You can't even declare bankruptcy to get rid of your debt. With one hand, the government feeds you to the slaughterhouse (college) and with the other, they seize all of your assets. It's a great business to be in if you can get it. 2) CHEAP ALTERNATIVESThe other day I spoke to Scott Young. For $2000, and in ten months time, he got an MIT Computer Science degree. How did he do it? They put their entire course load online. Maybe this will stop at some point. They do it because they know people still think it's worth it to spend $200,000 to do the exact same thing Scott did but still get that piece of paper that says "BS". When employers were asked, "would you hire Scott even though he doesn't have the actual degree?"