 At midnight my door opened and I saw the shadow of someone about 4 feet tall walk into my room and stand by my side of the bed. I cant sleep, she said and she was smart enough to also say, my mind is racing. Over the nine years of her life so far she has probably heard me say that many times. Racing racing racing. At noon there are many things to think about. At 3 in the morning, there's nothing to think about. So we race. Like when I was losing a home and I threw a chair and the police were called. The third time police had to be called on me in life (out of five).So I took her hand and we walked downstairs and she gave me a lecture on what was going on in each one of her classes and she concluded with a discussion of the various Greek gods (Athena is my favorite, she said. Who is yours. Hermes?) And then I saw her yawn and I said maybe now she can try to go back to sleep, which she did.Im scared for her. My mind races also. How many times has my mind woken me up at midnight to remind me of how little money was in my bank account, or how many bills I had to pay, or how much I hated my job, or even hated being an entrepreneur with customers, clients, people screwing me, people hating me. I dont want her mind to wake her like that when shes older. Its the worst pain. And I might not be there then for her to talk to.Will she kill herself? Will she wake up her husband or girlfriend or whatever and say, my mind is racing. Talk to me.One time some bad business things were happening to me. Something was shutting down, other things were going down. Some people were cheating me. Whatever. My mind was racing. I woke up Claudia. Breathe like this, she said. It was two in the morning but she wanted to help. She had me do a breathing exercise that involved quickly exhaling but I forget the rest of it. Then I fell asleep.One investor of mine told me I had a scarcity complex  that I always had a strong feeling that I had nothing even when I had many things to be happy about. This was about eight years ago. I agreed with him. He wanted to be my mentor.  I wanted him to sell his business  then let me invest the money. So I agreed to everything he said. I did that back then. But in this case maybe he was right. Unless Im at optimal health in every way I constantly feel like I have less than nothing. Its post-traumatic stress from losing everything several times and watching my father lose everything twenty years earlier.No toys will ever patch that bleeding.The country now has a scarcity complex. The banks took everything. The government took everything. There are no jobs. There is no money. Everyone is in despair. Everyone is scared about feeding their family. Scared and scarred. Greece, Japan, China, Libya, terrorism, Jamie Dimon, Obama, Rich Perry. These are the monsters in the closet at night.Im tired of monsters in my closet. Anger wont change anything. Complaining wont change anything.I want to be consistently in the 1%. Not of money. Money comes and goes, talking of Michelangelo.I want to be in the 1% of the happiest people on Earth.My only goal is to be in the 1% of happiness. Else, if Im in the 99%, then all of my other goals will also fall short of the 1%. You cant meet the love of your life, for instance, if youre in the botton 99%. At least, from my experience it will be harder. Its like taking out the garbage and expecting to meet the love of your life in the garbage can.My life is like a laboratory and happiness has been the experiment. Only when Ive been in the 1% of happiness have my other goals been satisfactorily achieved.So I know what I have to do when I slip into the 99%. This might not work for everyone. Maybe some people have to protest with signs to be in the top 1% of happiness. That doesnt work for me.But these ten things work for me:A) Lately, exercise has worked for me to stay in shape and sweat out toxins. Bad stuff builds up in the body. You have the usual disgusting methods to get out bad toxins that go into the digestion system. But what about bad stuff that builds up in every pore of your body. You have to sweat it out. Sometimes just 100 pushups