 I have done all of these ten things and seen the results. I was very unhappy.Before I can give you the rules I must establish my credentials.I have started about 20 businesses and failed at 17 of them. I have failed as a husband, as have many.I hope I don't fail as a parent but certainly some people would look at my track record and say, "yes, yes indeed, he failed as a parent."I'm not the best boyfriend. One time I broke up with a girlfriend while I was on the elevator up to meet her her in her apartment. I just hit the down button and never spoke to her again.But I also have had a few successes. Do I wish I had known these sooner? I don't know. I don't have a window into alternate realities. But I hope maybe other people's futures can be helped. HERE IS WHAT FAILURES DO:1) THEY BELIEVE IN THE WORD 'FAILURE'We dont live long enough to fail. Like if a planet is around for 4 billion years and produces no life-forms, I would call that planet a failure.Everything else is an experiment.Thomas Edison never said, I failed 10,000 times before I made a lightbulb."The guy was in a LABORATORY. He experimented. And now everyone gets into failure porn and says "I'm a failure". Thats BS!John Coltrane didnt fail when he couldnt stay in Miles Davis quartet.He was experimenting with Miles Davis style but ultimately, with 20 years of practice and study under his belt, he knew that only his unique style could survive and flourish in his own quartet.He experimented, learned from the experiment and moved on.HERE is the key on experimenting:THE MORE MISTAKES YOU MAKE THE BETTER YOU GET.Why is this? It's brain science: when you make a mistake, you repeat and repeat until you get it right.This repetition is "practice". Practice makes perfect.People who just get it right the first time (e.g. when I sold my first business) never learn all the subtleties you learn with practice.So they get fooled into thinking that "luck" equals "good" when actually "mistakes + repetition = good".2) FAILURES "UNDER PROMISE AND OVER DELIVER."Everybody is told a lie: to be a success you have to under promise and over deliver.This is the worst form of lack of integrity. The idea is that you are safe. Lets say you under promise and you under deliver.You think, incorrectly, hey, at least I have my integrity intact.No, you have nothing intact. You are just like everyone else. There are 3,000,000,000 employees on the planet and they are all under promising and most of them are under delivering.You are just like them.You have to: OVER PROMISE AND OVER DELIVEROver-promise sets you apart from the people who under-promise. Over-deliver sets you apart from people who just delivered.It's not that hard to do both. (It's easy to slightly over promise and slightly over deliver because nobody else is doing it).Try it and you will see the results. its amazing.3) PEOPLE WHO FAIL SEEM TO HAVE A LOT OF ACCIDENTSThey left their important project on the subway. They are sick.Their dog got sick. They broke up with their girlfriend or boyfriend. Theres a way to minimize accidents and its called health.You cant succeed if you are sick in bed. You cant succeed if you spent all night the night before reading your wifes emails because you cant trust her.You cant succeed if you arent grateful for being given at least the chance to be something better than what you are now.When someone consistently has a lot of excuses for why something has gotten done, I know they are not ready for the next step.When I was young, I was the man with the excuses. I had them every day. I was a master of them. But I fooled nobody. And so I was given less opportunities for success.And you know what: I was right! If Im reading my wifes email and shes cheating on me, I deserve to fail.So heres what you do: You cant be perfect.But every day: Move, Eat, SleepWellImprove your relationships (Call a friend, surprise a spouse, be kind to your kids)Be creative (only you know how to do this but at least write 10 random ideas a day)Be grateful for where you are. (and this is the Now that people brag about)4) FAILURES DONT TAKE IT THE NEXT LEVELBobby Fischer always took it to the next level. Nobody ever thought he was the greatest talent in chess history. He probably had average talent. But he always said, "how can I take chess to the next level". When he was a kid he learned Russian so he could read the Russian chess magazines. After that, he never lost a US Championship. He was 13 years old. He was so much better than the Americans he even stopped playing in the US championship. And he took it to the next level right up until the world championship. For the first time in his life he played a different first move.His opponent, the older world champion had ONLY prepared for the one move Fischer ever did. So Fischer came up an entire new opening with a new first move. Gandhi took it to the next level. Every revolution before him was done with violence. He experimented. He had a vision. He felt that 300 milllion Indians didnt need to do violence. He was right, despite everyone disagreeing with him. Take the advice of everyone around you, and then take it to the next level. Practice taking it to the next level (because at first you wont be good). Come up with your ideas but then think, "What has never been done before" (it's not true that everything has been done before. Only shadows of things have been done before). But do it over and over again and you will be THAT PERSON that knows how to take things above and beyond. 5) FAILURES TAKE ALL THE CREDITFailures are insecure. When they do their little stupid thing at work they want the credit. Give others credit all the time. Then you are the source of credit. Just like a bank. When people want more credit, who do they go to? They go to you! Just like they would go to the bank when they need more money. Credit is like currency. If you're the bank, then in the long run you will end up with all the real credit. 6) LACK OF INTEGRITYI dont mean be honest. Thats obvious. How do you take honesty and integrity to the next level? You become vulnerable. You admit mistakes before you have to. You offer