 The earliest known religion has been found in the galaxy: z8_GND_5296. Look it up. Massive telescopes in New Mexico have found the evidence but I happen to know a bit more. Here's the truth: Apparently the Universe is very stupid. ("uni" "verse" - one story). For a brief moment on this galaxy there was consciousness. Some single-celled bacteria woke up for pico-second and realized it was alive. Once anything is alive, it wants to know "Why". Since this amoeba-like creature was created in the image of the universe it has all of the other qualities of the universe. - It eventually died. Just like the universe will. - It's constantly expanding into more and more chaos, just like everything in the universe is. - It wants to explore. - It knows there are no answers, only questions. - When it turns on the TV there is static between the stations. The goal of the universe if to get rid of the static. The amoeba died but the Universe, up until then the only conscious being in existence, came up with a plan. It realized it didn't know many things. So It came up with an idea. What if I splinter off pieces of myself, send it out to other galaxies and worlds and time zones and so on and give it eyes and ears and other senses. Then they would live, die, expand, create chaos, teach each other, betray each other, lie to each other, and against all odds, try to find hope in each other. Then when the piece of the Universe dies, as all things do, it will come back into the Universe, and the Universe will absorb all of the information, learning a tiny bit more about itself. This is the only religion. Everyone thinks they are a fully actualized individual being but that's just a fake. We inherit our personalities from nature and nurture using the machinery the Universe has provided us. We then look at things with the eyes and listen with ears and we try to argue our opinions with the disgusting bacteria-filled hole in the middle of our faces. We shit almost every day. We grunt and sweat when we create new versions of ourselves. All of this is purely for the info-tainment of the Universe. Who records dutifully and then we get tucked back into the Universal fold when we die with no other memory other than the massive Universal memory of all things that ever lived and died. There is no right or wrong. There is only learning. There is no order. There is only ever-expanding chaos. There is no karma. We are temporarily conscious tape recorders and then the tape is stored in data banks for later use. I like my mission. I like spending my days learning on behalf of the larger consciousness that I am not only a part of, but it is a part of me - since there is no difference. Only our ego thinks there is a difference, but that is part of the learning. Whether good things or bad things happen to the creature that think it is "me", I don't care. It's all information that benefits the Universe, which is always happy because it's only as old as a little child. You might think this is crazy. But it's true. How do I know? Because it's wonderful.