 This is like magic. Thank you. Finally a question made for me. I don't even need a belt to fit this question around my waist. First, I have some credentials. I've failed at 17 businesses. I've succeeded at a few. But failed at most. I've also run a $125 million venture capital firm and I'm currently invested in about 30 companies, many of which I advise or on the board, etc. Oh, one thing before I answer the question: the companies that NEVER call me are always the ones that are doing the best. I made lots of mistakes as a first time entrepreneur. In every possible way. And I see a lot of those mistakes repeated in companies I'm invested in. I keep telling myself to remember these. Maybe this answer will be a good way for me to remember. Note: these are MISTAKES. So they are like double negatives. A) START YOUR BUSINESS WHEN YOU ARE BROKEDon't start a company if you're broke. This is not the same as "having no money". If you are fine staying on the floor of a friend's house and living on nothing then you are not quite broke. You have food and shelter. But if you have kids and a wife and a mortgage, etc (the other extreme) don't go broke and start a business. When I started my first business, I stayed at my full time job for 18 MONTHS before I left to become CEO of my startup full-time. We had 12 employees by then and almost as many clients. In other words, I knew I could replace my salary and still pay my employees for at least six months even if everything went down hill. Which leads me to....B) IF YOU ONLY HAVE MONEY TO LAST YOU SIX MONTHS THEN YOU ARE ALREADY OUT OF BUSINESSI was on the board of a company once and when I read the monthly financials I realized the burn (the monthly loss in cash) was such that we would run out of money in six months. I called the other board members. They hadn't even looked at the financials. I called the CEO. He said, "but we have six months!" This is really really important: if you have six months, IT IS ALREADY SIX MONTHS FROM NOW. What that means is: no matter what you do: you will not be able to raise the money, do the legal, find the customers, do the work, get paid, or whatever you need to do - in six months time. You are the walking dead and you don't know it. Here's what we did. I called an emergency board meeting. We explained the situation to the CEO. He refused to believe it. I called him separately and gave him ten different examples. He finally got it. We fired a lot of people to reduce the burn. Somehow it didn't reduce enough. We hired a bank. We went to all the usual players. Everyone said no about buying us. They all were waiting for us to die. And then they would scrape us up for nothing. Finally, someone bought us for a good amount 2x what we put in a few months ago. I don't know why did it. I just thank god they did. The CEO, who didn't even realize he was going to go broke, made $6 million and moved to another country. We officially sold the company the day before the company was going to run out of money. Six months after that first phone call to the day. C) SMOKE CRACKWe have a cognitive bias to think that our own ideas are great ideas. It's hard to admit that they won't work. Profits are the purifier of a business. That's the best way you can tell you have a good idea. If people give you SO MUCH money that you have money left over. Revenues are the next bests thing after profits. And users are the next best thing after that. If you are having trouble with any of the above three and this situation lasts more than a few months then you are smoking crack. You have to come up with a better idea. This doesn't apply to biotech or scientific companies that need to raise a lot of money. But it applies to every other business. D) UNDER PROMISE AND OVER DELIVERYes, this is a MISTAKE first-time entrepreneurs make. Your competition is over-promising. Here's what you can go wrong if you under-promise and over-deliver. First off, anyone who over-promises is going to win the business. They might do a bad job but possession is 9/10 the law. They have the client and they can do things to fix the relationship. Second, you might under promise and UNDER deliver. Then you're just a bad vendor and they will eventually switch to someone else. What's the solution? One thing: Over promise....and over deliver. Now you're amazing. And the client is there forever. E) DON'T COMMUNICATEHere's the magic rule: talk to a new customer every day for 100 days. It doesn't matter what you talk about. Just call them and say, "how's it going?" Some customers might look at this and say, "I don't want to hear from my vendor for 100 days in a rule." They are lying. They do. And they don't know it. This is often called, "following up". As soon as you meet a potential customer, have an entire system in place to follow up. As soon as you deliver a proposal, follow up, as soon as you deliver a product, follow up. Even when you are in the middle of completing a project, follow up. FOLLOW UPYou call and just say, "I always want to make sure I'm doing my best for you. Is all ok?" And then listen. And then say good-bye so you don't waste their time. Do that and you have a client for life. Trust me trust me trust me. F) HIRING PEOPLEMost startups don't need to hire that many people. Like, don't hire a secretary. Or a head of HR. Or even a head of sales. If you're the CEO, then you