 Balaji ViswanathanWhat does the week measure? Nothing. At least, nothing visible. No natural phenomenon occurs every seven daysnothing happens to the sun, the moon, or the stars. The week is an artificial, man-made interval. -- Waiting for the WeekendFor a variety of reasons the Babylonians adopted the seven day week [they thought there were seven planets] and like various queer things from them [60 minutes an hour, 24 hour days] the rest of the world adopted these without much modification.How is it that countries from different parts of the world share few unique things in common?Early Jews took the seven day concept from the Babylonians and made it at the center of their religion. According to the Old Testament, God created world in 6 days and took a divine rest on the 7th day. This day is observed as the day of Shabbat - a day of rest and worship. That day falls on Saturday [7th day of the week]. However, many Christians, especially the Protestants saw Sunday as the day of Shabbat - partly to rebel and partly to confirm with Christian belief that Jesus resurrected on Sunday. Puritan Sabbatarianism.By the modern period, Britain and US had started taking Sunday off to relax and to worship the God. In the 20th century, to both account for mechanisation and accommodate both Jewish & Christian versions of the Sabbath, both Saturday & Sunday became holidays. Henry Ford was among the biggest proponents of this change and his giving his workers 2 day off eventually set the standard for the whole of the industrial world. Ford factory workers get 40-hour week - May 01, 1926 - HISTORY.com. Two days of rest allowed the skilled workers to perform at high productivity and made religious leaders and tourism companies very happy too.The concept of weekend thus mainly originated from western industrial workers and eventually rest of the world too adopted it from various reasons including colonialism and spread of Christianity. Many countries even today don't have the weekend on Sunday. Afghanistan's weekend is for instance Thursday-Friday. Kabul to move to five-day week Also see: Where the Five-Day Workweek Came From