 Balaji ViswanathanIndia has a long open border with Nepal and a crisis there affects India. The people of the Terai plain have not found the Constitution favorable and we would later see why. India's biggest worry is in the instability of the Terai region that comprises most of Nepal's 1750km border with India. When such a long region is destabilized India would see a number of side effects.Administrative concern: Many Madhesi people of Terai have either moved from India or have intermarried with Indians. If their situation turns problematic India could face a deluge of refugees.Political concern: The states bordering Terai - UP and Bihar - hold the most political power due to their size. Thus, what happens in Terai have a strong impact on Indian voters and hence Indian government.Geopolitical concern: When Nepal is destabilized due to the Madhesis, it has very high chances of sliding towards China. Sooner Nepal gets to peace, better it is for India. Economic concern: A lot of Indian businesses have heavily invested in Nepal recently. Violence is bad for business. That said, I don't think Indian government's behavior is helping reduce the violence. The whole episode is handled in a tactless way and more reminiscent of India's past follies rather than a new Indian foreign policy under Modi. The Modi magic is absent in this issue as Bihar elections is proving to be a much bigger distraction affecting the foreign policy.Who are the Madhesis?Madhes/Terai form the southern plains of Nepal. Historically these were mosquito infested swamps and Malaria made sure the population was sparse. However, in 1940s and 50s massive improvement in usage of DDT and other agents allowed people fight the mosquitoes. A lot of poor Indians along with many tribal groups in Nepal boldly moved to these swamps & helped grow the region to now become half of Nepal by population. An Environmental History of Postcolonial North IndiaEven though Madhes refers to all of Terai, the term Madhesi use by many Nepalis primarily refers to caste Hindus who moved from northern Indian in the recent centuries, distinguishing them from native groups like Tharus. The trouble for Madhesis with the dominant Nepali group CHHE (Caste and Hill Hindu Elite) is partly ethnic and partly caste centric. CHHE are ethnic Nepalis, while most Madhesis are recent migrants from India to build the Terai region. One part of them are caste Hindus and other are dalits, muslims and tribals. Why are the Madhesis not liking the Constitution?7 states model: Nepal's mainstream parties have divided the nation as 7 states cut in north-south direction. Parties agree to go for 7-province model This would allow the majority ethnicity to be present in every state. Madhesis demand a separate state to have their own identity. For instance, a decade post independence India was reorganized along linguistic lines to make sure each major group had their identity protected by the state. Hill Elites don't like the idea fearing that such a Madhesi state could join India like Sikkim did [an event that Nepal remembers far more than India]Proportional representation: Madhesis demanded that the federal legislature should contain more than half from people elected through a proportional representation. For instance, if Madhesis were 16% of population, 16% of that legislative group would be Madhesi. In the final Constitution, slightly less than half was allocated for proportional representation with the remaining legislature elected by people directly.Citizenship: This has always been a thorn for the Madhesis. The present Constitution makes it quite hard for those Nepal women marrying men from outside. The children are not given citizenship until the men gets the citizenship through a fairly arduous process. In my humble view, India has to be more supportive than act rash right now. Our Constitution was not perfected on Day one and it took time for us to linguistically organize states, bring powers to local governments and so on. Also, trying to win the upcoming Bihar elections should not affect India's historic relationship with Nepal.Instead of adding fuel to the fire, our government should calm down the Madhesis and also pull strings in the back to have more peaceful negotiations.Why India is concerned about Nepal's constitution - BBC News