 Balaji ViswanathanThere is a story set in Soviet Russia. A foreigner was once sitting at a restaurant and making a list of places to visit. An old lady accosted him at his table and asked him to put her name in the list. He thought it was very weird that someone asks to be in his errand list. But, for what is worth he just noted her name. Soon, there was a queue at his table. Everyone wanted to get their name in "the list". In Soviet Russia, everyone worried about being left out and not being in important lists [for getting food or government pass]. What if you lose out a government service?Like in the listmania in the Soviet joke, Indians have a mania for filling out applications - job and college admissions. The application forms are dirt cheap and Indian families are paranoid. Put both these together and you can find that Indians are applying to everything - a large number of colleges and a large number of jobs. People don't want to be left out.Indians apply randomly to a lot of places.This artificially boosts number of applicants. The fact is that 90%+ of applicants for anything are totally not serious and in some cases might not even know that someone in the family made an application in their name. This is not new. For instance, 1.7 million people applied for SBI bank PO jobs - 17 Lakh Apply for 1500 SBI PO Jobs; 4500 To Get Interview Call and in a Railways exam 1.5 lakh people applied, 30,000 registered and only 8000 sat for the exams - Only 29% of applicants sit for railway recruitment exam.This reflects bad attitudes than bad economy.The third point comes to location convenience. A lot of the engineers or post graduates who are applying for low end jobs might have their spouse/family who is working nearby. Many women used to work as bank clerks merely to support their husband's career although they might have gotten better jobs elsewhere. A question we need to ask is how many of the PhDs, doctors or engineers actually are working as peons given that we know everyone applies for everything. I'm assuming only a handful of those qualified people would be working in the lowest levels.The next question we need to ask is what kind of colleges did those so called Phd holders go to. Unless you do Phd at a top institution it is a waste of time and harmful to career. In many fields in India, getting a Phd is fairly easy. Getting a Phd in Physics from IISc sure is hard, but what about getting a Phd from a low ranked college? I believe there are a lot of Phds in India who are not job ready. Even in the US, a number of Phds end up as taxi drivers or hotel waiters. The Ph.D Bust: America's Awful Market for Young Scientistsin 7 ChartsDegrees matter less compared to the institutions attended. Simply getting a BE, B.Tech, MBBS, MBA or whatever doesn't make one magically ready for jobs. Most Indian students are unfortunately never ready for jobs.My humble view is that this one news item hyped by a few Indian media sources doesn't indicate anything new, shocking or surprising.