 Balaji ViswanathanIn 1991, there was just 1 television channel in India. Almost the entire nation was in sync with its programs and schedules. By the end of that year we had Star TV. Few more months later Zee TV. A year later Sun TV & Star Sports. We now needed a remote. In just couple of years from a sleep inducing DD, our home was flooded with Star Sports, ESPN, HBO, MTV, Cartoon Network... Massive change in a very short time.Here is what TV channel meant in 1991 [flickers and a dosa montage]. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...In 1991, not many knew the recently launched Sensex. It fact, there was neither sense nor sex that was talked that time. By 1994, neighborhood aunties had become stock traders. As Harshad Mehta was zooming up the market, everyone seemed talking about stock brokers, BSE and related topics. My dad and I stood in lines to subscribe to new IPOs.In 1991, your choice was pretty much Indian Airlines if you have to fly within India. When they were not plying for their netas, they might serve you too. In 1991 we had East West Airlines with nicely dressed hostess. In 1992, there was Jet airlines and by 1993 it looked like everyone was running their own airlines [most failed and only Jet survived that era].In 1991, if you have to bank you need to wait for the sarkar. You would be lucky to get any transaction done that day and you were totally at their mercy. In 1994 there came ICICI, HDFC, UTI (Axis). Now, you had a choice.In 1991, getting a telephone line means you need influence. We waited years to get our first one. Neighbors would randomly come and make phone calls. The phone worked only when you were lucky or you paid the lineman a bribe. By mid 1990s there were cellphone operators and a few years later phone companies were begging you to buy their stuff.In 1991, if you had to get dollars you had to do through the Hawala. A badly dressed guy in a cycle would come in with loads of dollars hidden in a bag and you would give your few lakh rupees. In another 2 years, you could get a sizable chunk of dollars just in banks. In 1991, to bring gold into India, you have to smuggle. Now, you could bring 5 kilos of gold - breaking the whole of gold smuggling industry.The period from 1991-1994 was probably the most glorious time periods in recent Indian history. There were radical changes in entertainment, transportation, communication, finances, education... Unfortunately, the leader who preceded this revolution could not immediately see what he did and by the end of his term, rather than gloating about he was getting too defensive. Unlike China's Deng, he didn't plan for this and had no idea on how this would change India.Also see: Everyone has some interesting story about their first visit to Delhi. What is your story on first time visit to Delhi?What exactly happened to the Indian economy in 1991 in layman's terms?What would be the summary of the politics of India from 1947 to today?Why did India's GDP grow slower than China's in the last 50 years?