 Balaji ViswanathanTamils have always had extensively used pan-Indian names. Our culture is not monolithic. It is an assimilation of features from a variety of sources - from the hill tribes in the west to the coastal farmers of the east to the influences of the north. Throughout time we had "Tamil-sounding" names and "Sanskrit-sounding" names. Even today we have many who want to do former and many who want to do latter. It is up to one's preference and both categories have been used throughout history.The great Cholas and other great kings who have dotted Tamil Nadu with famed temples from Thanjavur Brihadeeswarar temple to Madurai Meenakshi Amman temple have all held "Sanskrit" names. And regardless of where the word originated - the fact is Madura (nectar), Sangam, Meenakshi, Ishwar are all pan-Indian names. So are ancient Tamil characters like Sage Agastya.Let me recount the names of some not-so-recent Tamil kings and their "Tamil" names. Chola dynasty: Rajaraja, Rajendra, Virajendra, Athirajendra, Vijayalaya, Sundara, Parantaka, Aditya...Pandyan dynasty: Parantaka, Parakrama, Jatavarma, Sundara, Arakesari, Srimara SrivallabhaPallava dynasty: Simhavarama, Vishnugopa, Narasimha, Nandivarma, Chera dynasty: Bhaskara, Kulasekara, Rajashekara, Ravi Varma...Kambar brought divine work from Valmiki's Sanskrit epic, while Nayanmars & Azhwars brought divine ecstasy that mixed Sanskrit ideas with local ones. Such synthesis is the core of India and not isolation & some stupid notion of "linguistic purity".Skipping to modern era, all Nobel Laureates, all the Bharat Ratna winners and all the Presidents from Tamil Nadu have all had pan-Indian names. Leave alone the Congress party CMs like Rajaji, Kamaraj & Bhakthavatsalam, even the Dravidian party Chief Ministers - Karunanidhi, MG Ramachandran and Jayalalitha have Sanskrit names. Subramanya Bharathi had a Sanskrit name and so did Periyar Ramasamy.There is nothing shameful about using a name used across India. People name their kids with words they are comfortable with and words they like. Most people don't name kids just because a political group wants to go for historic revisionism.