 Balaji ViswanathanThe premise could be disputed, but I will use this opportunity to talk about a key phase of Indian history that probably led to such phenomenon and why north lagged the south in modern era - in overall development not just in producing elite scientists. For most of its history, Indian north had great cities that were center of science & culture. Cities like Ujjain, Pataliputra, Taxila, Kannauj, Kashi, Delhi and Mathura stunned Indians and foreigners alike. They were all inland cities too. Indian coastal cities like Puhar (Did Tsunamis Strike Town Twice?) and Dwarka have faced enormous natural calamities forcing Indian empires to be built away from the coast. When the East India Company slowly colonized India, they started from the coasts. This was unusual in Indian history and one that allowed them an easier expansion as the local emperors didn't desire the coast as much as the inland plains. The company leased less populated harbours in what would become Madras, Bombay and Calcutta - among the largest cities of modern India. India's north has no coast and hence was less interesting for the European trade settlements.Even after the rest of India was colonized by the end of 18th century, the company continued to rule from the coasts. Madras, Bombay and Calcutta became the 3 Presidency towns - the most prestigious of British India. All of north India [with more than half of India's population] was originally ruled from the amorphous North-Western Provinces that was to become the Presidency of Agra, but never became. The north was later divided into various provinces, all with lower status and development than the Presidencies. The whole of north India never had Presidency towns!As railways became introduced in the mid 1850s, the 3 Presidency towns got much more power. These towns got the infrastructure, factories and later universities. Raw materials from rest of India were shipped to such places. These became center of commerce, culture, art and science. Calcutta the capital of India was the most powerful of the three and this led to the Bengal renaissance. The region that was never the center of India had finally found its due importance. After 1857, Britain also got very wary of upper castes and Muslims especially from the Presidencies and prevented these groups from entering the army, leading to a period of Punjabization (see more:What led to the transformation of Bengal?) It worked better for the upper castes as they used the opportunity to enter administration and commerce & eventually get more power. Look at the oldest universities setup in British India and you can see that all of them around the 3 Presidency towns.All the major universities were started around the 3 Presidency towns. North got none until later.Being the center of administration, it was the 3 Presidencies that brought the first nationalist organizations that was to later merge and become the Congress Party. The partition of Bengal in 1905 was a lightning rod for the nationalists & British viceroy was totally taken aback by the development. While they restored Bengal's unity in 1911, Britain finally woke up to the danger of what is happening in Bengal and other Presidencies and moved power to an hitherto ignored region - Delhi around which they were now drawing their army. They thought now the government would be safe from the nationalists. While Delhi was developed in the last 3 decades of the British rule, it was too little and too late for north India. North India was deurbanized and its glorious ancient cities were now in shambles & squalor. With no cities, there was no science, no commerce and no art. In contrast with the north, British rule was slightly less brutal on the coastal metropolises & even today the attitude towards British can drastically vary between these two populations. South India was also fortunate to have better run Princely states of Mysore and Travancore who were way better than most rulers of India . The only region in south that was totally misruled was the Nizam led Hyderabad and even today you can see the drastic development difference between Telangana and other southern states. In short, the elevation of south and east in sectors like science is predominantly a result of colonization that moved power from river plains to the coasts & developed very few cities in north India. You can note that while the south got new cities of Hyderabad, Bangalore and Madras all developed in the past 400 years, north India had no new city built until the start of the 20th century. The once marvelled plains of Ganges with glorious towns of Allahabad, Benaras, Gaya and others were in shambles by the 20th century.The delay in building modern cities was crucial in keeping the north behind the south. Even today, north is highly rural and it was not historically the case.When we analyze the biggest calamity colonization did to India, it is that the vast swathes of interior India - especially in the north - that had the most population and most number of cities in ancient India were ignored and left to rot.