 Balaji ViswanathanNormandy Landings:Here are some of the interesting things from the D-Day invasion of Normandy that changed the war and helped Allies invade Germany. Germany had built a strong fortress to protect the Atlantic coasts of Norway, France and Belgium from an invasion from Britain. However, on June 6 1944 it was broken in one of the largest military operations in history.Some interesting factoids about that incident:The most expensive sleep: Hitler was sleeping at the time of the invasion and no one dared wake the Fuhrer. In the costliest nap in history, the man who could have mobilized German troops to counter the Normandy invasion was sleeping. Did a power nap cost Adolf Hitler victory in World War II? Staff were too scared to wake him on D-Day.A costly birthday: Around the same time Hitler was sleeping, the Chief of German Armed Forces Rommel was away in Germany celebrating his wife's birthday. American Experience. Rommel always believed that the first few hours of the invasions was the most critical and it is then the two most powerful men of Germany were relaxing. Rommel eventually rushed to France, but by then it was already too late. The deception: Germany had 55 divisions in France while the Allies were coming with only 8 divisions on D-Day. Thus, they had to distract the Germans substantially until they could land more troops. To do that the Operation Bodyguard was built as one of the finest deceptions in history that hoodwinked the Germans to believe that the invasion was coming from a different direction.The secret: There were 17 million maps that were used and all of them used fake names. Normandy landings were one of the most well guarded secrets in the whole war and that eventually decided its outcome. D-Day Anniversary: Must-Know Facts about Allied Invasion of Normandy [PHOTOS]The ammunition: Despite the deceptions and delay in leadership's reaction, the German troops fought hard, but soon they ran out of ammunition. The original plan was to supply those guns with 48 hours of firepower. But, it was a massive failure in not supplying enough ammunition to outposts like the Omaha beach whose ammunition lasted only 4 hours. At the end of those 4 hours, Allies made a significant move.Overall warThe Turnaround: US Army before WW2 was smaller than that of Portugal and even its top generals like Eisenhower had very little battlefield experience. Its army would have struggled to be even in the top 20 in the world of that time (U.S. army was smaller than the army for Portugal before World War II). The inexperienced US Army was first sent to North Africa to fight second grade troops before entering Europe. Their first encounter with the Germans was a disaster (Battle of Kasserine Pass) and even in North Africa they had trouble fighting the Germans. But, they not just recovered from that embarrassing loss, but in just 2 years they would become the superpower - the most astonishing turnaround in history. In 1940, US spent $2 billion on defense. By 1945, they spend $60 billion a year on defense.Most prized briefcase ever: While US was a great manufacturing power, it was somewhat back in military technology compared to the Europeans. UK was sitting on a knife edge in 1940 and sent a man with all of its military technology secrets that they gave away to the Americans. Briefcase 'that changed the world' This was height of desperation from a nation that was fighting its survival. From radars to nuclear bombs to rockets, that briefcase had the secrets that the Americans would put to implementation at a record speed. Eventually those were the technologies that won the war.Soviet males of 1923: Although this fact has often been exaggerated in social media, fact remains is that nearly 70% of the males born in Soviet Union in 1923 were dead by the end of the war. The war was not the only reason - Communist policies generously helped, but it is still astonishing that high a percentage didn't survive past youth. Was the Soviet 1923 Male Birth Cohort Doomed by World War II?Double survivors: Astonishingly in Japan there were not just a handful, but a few hundred people who survived both the atomic droppings. Even in 2006 - 61 years after the event, a project could find 165 of the double survivors. Film Explores Untold Stories from Hiroshima & NagasakiSoviet delay: Until the last week of the war, Soviet Russia didn't declare a war on Japan. Stalin assumed that the war would take a long time to end and Russia would get its share in Japanese spoils. However, the atomic bomb made for a sudden surrender that surprised even Stalin. Soviets were cutoff from any say in rebuilding Japan.History is often made in these little tactical mistakes and victories that put together have an enormous effect.