 Balaji ViswanathanI do support many of the Modi government policies because it aligns with what I believe is good for India. And is for the same reason why Modi is able to excite so many in Silicon Valley right now. Ultimately what matters to me is who is good for Indian development. I do praise Congress leaders like Rao, Nehru and Shastri when they have done good for country (Which Indian Prime Minister did the most benefit to the nation?) and at the same time have criticized Modi's government when they have not done as well [some recent articles below]:Why is India so much concerned about Nepal adopting a constitution?Not Bold Enough: Indian Union Budget 2014Is the economy of India doing better under Modi?And I'm quite straight in my beliefs and views and never hid the fact that I do support the BJP. I'm not a member of BJP and neither is anyone from my family. Thus, I have nothing to personally gain from BJP rule. I do support only where it fits my ideology. When I truly believe one set of policies are better than another set, it would be disingenuous to attempt to appear neutral. There are stupid ideas and there are not-so stupid ideas. I do find many of Modi's ideas good. This is especially true in foreign policy, economy, security [no major riots, terrorist attacks or external tensions] and governance [no major scandals so far]. No other Indian leader after Nehru had so many mentions in the international fora and I'm really happy about it. A growing economy needs a visible icon. When India's leaders are taken seriously, India will be taken seriously.Some said, I have published my answers in right wing publications like NitiCentral. I have also published answers in dozens of publications including TIME, Newsweek, Firstpost, Slate, Huffington Post and Forbes (https://www.quora.com/Balaji-Vis...). Of course, you would not call me British when my articles appear on BBC. Tomorrow, if a left wing publication like Hindu asks to publish one of my answers, I will say yes too. Finally, the reason my answers on Modi is seen more prominent is because, of the few dozen Indian writers (Who from India is among the Top Writers of 2015?) only about two are actually pro-BJP and I fear if I don't write about BJP, the ideas you get would be totally one-sided [most Indian top writers support either AAP or Congress]. Is that good for healthy debate on politics? In some sense it is lonely, as almost nobody from the Quora Top Writer group shares my ideology. If there were more writers on BJP topics, I would happily move to topics [like History, Economics and Foreign Policy] that I like more.On an unrelated note, I have found that the people who really have a problem are not the unbiased folk, but those who do support other parties. One dude was complaining long that I was not being neutral and being political. I went to his profile only to find he was a volunteer for another political party.