 Balaji ViswanathanInvasions happen only to those regions that were worth conquering. People have always fought for the regions around the rivers of Jordan, Tigris, Nile and Rhine, because they found it worthy. Among those civilizations that were a) known to others, b) geographically accessible and c) worth invading [fertile land/great ports] India was among the least invaded.Look at the history of say Mesopotamia and Egypt. Throughout history they were so frequently invaded that there is very less link between their present culture and their glorious past. In the past 2000 years, Egypt has been ruled by the Persians, then the Greeks, the Romans, the Arabs, the Turks, French and the British. Britain was invaded by the Romans, then the Angles, Saxons & Jutes, then the Vikings and the Normans. The original Celtic culture has been sent to the museums for the most part. China was much more insulated through geography, but also faced constant invasions by Mongols, Manchus & other northerners even after a wall was built to stop them.In short, the history of civilizations is primarily about the history of invasions. No one was spared. Again, scientific superiority goes only so far. In a street fight between a mathematician and a thug who would win? To make it more complex, imagine another mathematician rival who sides the thug to fight the first mathematician. Technology cannot always overcome petty politics.In case of India, we talk about the handful of invasions because they were quite rare. India had resisted the invasion of Darius & others so that India never came under the Persian rule although so many ideas were exchanged. Then Alexander came and his armies had to turn back after an engrossing battled at the banks of Hydaspes. The Kushans from central Asia had briefly penetrated that shield in 1st century, but were eventually Indianized and power restored to Indian rulers (Guptas). The central Asians (now Hunas) once again penetrated at the end of Guptas in 6th century, but after a brief rule they were both Indianized & replaced. The unstoppable Arabs were then stopped at the Battle of Rajasthan in the 8th century without which Asian history could have looked very different. In the 12th century the Afghans finally penetrated after various north Indian empires had collapsed centuries before and were for longer haul this time by occupying parts of north India. But, they were getting Indianized too as seen by Mughal emperor Akbar's attempt at hybridization. In the period of Afghan Sultanates, Genghis Khan was stopped at the banks of Indus and later Mongol warriors defeated at the Battle of Amroha.In short, in Indus banks greatest world warriors like Darius, Alexander, Genghis Khan and the generals of Umayyad Caliphate were stopped. And all of this is only for the northern India. Southern India for the most part avoided external invasions until the modern era. For over a century, the all-conquering Mongols tried invading and were not successful other than few border territories [Mongol invasions of India]The reduced number of invasions & extraordinary assimilation is one reason why India among the ancient civilizations has a cultural continuity. Ancient practices of the Vedic saints of pre-1500 BCE and those of Buddha & Mahavira of 600 BCE as much relevant today as it were probably centuries ago.Finally, about scientific advancements, some misconceptions need to be cleared. To understand that, let me give you an analogy from Cricket. We had an excellent opening partnership with Sachin like Harappa and Saurav like Mohenjodaro blasting the skies. Then they got out and there was a period of lull. Things were rebuilt under a Dravid like Vedic era and we kept slowly consolidating. Then after a period of slow moving, there was a vintage Yuvraj-Dhoni like Gupta & Chola civilization that rapidly got the civilization going. Then wickets kept falling and by the start of the powerplay like industrial revolution we were playing with a tailender and a substitute batsman lent by the opponent. When other teams blasted out in the powerplay, we were playing maiden over after maiden over. Part of that is good bowling from the opponent, but most of it is bad batting from our side. Even though we had a good start, we are now at a point our run rate is far below other times playing in parallel games.