 Balaji ViswanathanThere is a false dichotomy here. Having free wifi stations doesn't affect having clean bathrooms. There is no need to choose one over the other. We can have both [the present government is pushing for both]. Secondly, the middle class are as much citizens of India as the poor. Government is not just for the poor, but to provide services to all classes. Most importantly, Indian government is not going to spend anything in this free wifi project and it is primarily Google's project. Google is putting WiFi in 400 Indian train stations. How can free wifi in stations help everyone:It helps tourists, especially foreign tourists, to access essential information and reduce their pains. When pain reduces, tourism increases --> more income to India. Providing free access to information would put fraudulent touts and middlemen in the station out of job & move elsewhere. When these anti-social elements get out of the station, there would be better safety. Trains are used extensively by students traveling between their homes and hostels/colleges/job interviews etc. They could now productively use their time wasted waiting for trains. That means a smarter India and a richer India.On a broader note, when the poor from India's far flung corners can access government services and other important content through the Internet, they can get the same benefits as an urban dweller. Internet, like mobile telephony, could be more useful to the rural poor than the urban rich. What Modi is doing is trying to get major corporations provide these services so that the government can spend more on essential services. And the government is also trying to get a big rush from all the tech competitors - Microsoft to take low-cost broadband tech to 5 lakh villages. Eventually, it would create a virtuous loop with more poor people getting access to these services, climbing out of poverty and be able to buy more services.Sure, Google and other companies have plenty to gain from this. And that is good. If you are offering something in return for what they provide, you are trading. If you are asking for something without anything to offer, you are begging. What Modi is trying to do is former.