 Balaji ViswanathanIn game theory terms these come under the category of Cooperative game and colloquially called the Win-win game. A large number of economic interactions fall under this. A classic one is trade. If you can I can find a way to trade, we both win. For instance, let's assume you are trying to sell a home and I'm trying to buy a home. If we agree on a price, we both win - as you get the money to do other things and I get a new home to start a family.If it is a game, what is the challenge here? The challenge is that:You and I should trust each other or find mechanisms to trust each other. One way to do that is to sign legal documents and involve the courts if things go bad. If there is no court, lobby the government to create courts and laws. If there is no government convince other people that you need one. In fact, modern government systems & laws often originated due to the necessities of traders requiring trust. You and I should agree on a price. This is the hardest part in any trade. To have that we need to get governments to be transparent with data and more importantly we need the concept of a market. A market is a place where people transact by observing others. This way instead of just you worrying about prices, you can also use the collective brains of other buyers & sellers.There needs to be a quality standards. How does the buyer and seller agree on a price if they are talking different things? We need to find a way to standardize. For instance, houses are often measured in square feet [for which you need the concept of a measurement] and you also mention other standard features when selling. Governments again take a lot of attention in verifying scales & standards. There are plenty more. If you complete them all, you have the modern system of governance and those places where it is complete trade fails.Thus, trade is a game where you have to go against all odds and find a way to agree on things with your opponent. The challenge is in finding the right agreement that satisfies both sides. Once you discover that, both win. This is also behind conflict resolutions, treaties and other elements of society.Not understanding the mechanics of non-zero sum games or win-win games is a key thing plaguing the developing economies.