 Balaji ViswanathanBengal's first hit came in 1857 when the British government punished the region along with many others for participating in the first independence struggle (Indian Rebellion of 1857). This led to a period of Punjabization (See more: Punjabization in the British Indian Army 1857-1947 and the advent of military rule in Pakistan) where the power started shifting to the Punjab region in the north. Army was predominantly recruited from the Punjab region while the Hindu upper castes especially from the Bengal region were recruited a lot less.I will take a small detour as this event is very important to understand modern Indian history and could answer a number of questions. How did nationalism get strength in Bengal after 1857? A lot of elites who were no longer admitted into army went to civil service & other forms of social leadership. They no longer needed to be loyal to the British.Why does Indian Army has lesser representation of Muslims and upper caste Hindus? Army's demographic represents the demographic of Punjab (India) and that has very less muslims after 1947. How could Pakistan punch much above its weight? The Punjab region in Pakistan enjoyed a large proportion in British Indian army and thus had a significant power after partition.Why did India never have coups? Britain made India fairly mutiny proof by hiring from the minorities. However, post partition in Pakistan, Punjabis became the dominant ethnicity in both population and military. Thus, military called the shots. In India, Punjabi Sikhs are a minority community and would find it hard to control the population.Power shifts to DelhiBack to the question now. Post 1857, Bengali elites shifted from the army to the civil service and that led to a period of massive cultural reformation. Rabindranath Tagore's elder brother Satyendranath Tagore who was part of University of Calcutta's first batch became the first Indian to enter the coveted Indian Civil Service in 1864. This Hindu renaissance also led to the Hindus dominating a lot of the government service entering ICS and lower rungs of the government. Alarmed by the Hindu domination of government, the British sowed the second seed of partition by dividing Bengal in 1905 along religious lines (Partition of Bengal (1905)). The reaction was totally unexpected. Indian nationalist movement that was already gaining strength in the late 1800s exploded. Indian Viceroy Lord Curzon was eventually forced to back down in 1911 and reunite Bengal. But, the precedent had already been set. As Britain could neither stop the Bengalis from entering the government nor could partition Bengal, they looked for alternatives in 1911 and that led to the Delhi Durbar bringing King George V meeting with Indian monarchs. The Punjabization drive was put to phase II as the capital was shifted from Calcutta to Delhi - more than thousand kilometers away from the "pesky" Bengalis.Control shifts to to all directionsIn parallel, another force was then acting in a different direction. In the 1800s, Bombay slowly started taking the economic mettle - especially as middle east became connected with India - and by early 1900s Bombay became the most important economic region eclipsing Calcutta. Regions as far away as Aden in present day Yemen came under the control of Bombay (Colony of Aden). The merchant class from the Bombay region had the benefit of this new economic power and leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel and MA Jinnah grew to the top of national leadership. While Bengalis formed the first Indian ICS officers, by 1900s South Indians started getting much more into the administrative services starting from Sir P. Rajagopalachari [not to be confused with the more popular C. Rajagopalachari]. The central region - modern day UP and Bihar - also gained the most political power with leaders such as Nehru and Rajendra Prasad.Thus, in a few decades, rest of India started taking various powers that previously was concentrated in East. North took the military, South took the administration, West took the commerce and Center took the politics. East was helplessly seeing all these. After 1947, east was burdened with India's partition and it was also in some sense ignored by all branches of the government. It was probably not a deliberate decision, but the region no longer mattered that much to national politics. In less than 90 years, the region collapsed from India's core to India's backwater.The backward politics & administration had severe effects. Land reforms became very slow and by 1960s, the regions was teetering on a collapse with a revolution in making from the Naxalbari region in the northern part of Bengal. While a less virile form of that revolution took power since then, the abysmal governance continued and it became a backwater in India. Also see:Where did West Bengal go wrong?Why was Calcutta a very important center during the pre-independence period (British India)?References Punjabization in the British Indian Army 1857-1947 and the advent of military rule in PakistanThe Administration of India from 1859 to 1868Hinduism and the Ethics of Warfare in South AsiaMutiny at the Margins: New Perspectives on the Indian Uprising of 1857