 Balaji ViswanathanUnited States entered the war as Germans attempted to bring Mexico into a conflict with the US found through the leaking of the Zimmermann Telegram. For a long time the German & Irish Americans - who made a bulk of American population - fought against an American entry into the war. An angry Theodore Roosevelt who was retiring from politics riled against such a behavior.The Lewiston Daily Sunhyphenated-Americans who terrorized American politicians by threats of the foreign vote were engaged in treason to the American RepublicIrish Catholics were especially against helping UK after the crushing of Easter Rising - a rebellion against British rule in 1916. Plenty of protestants were also for pacifism and thus there was enough weight against the war. Preparedness MovementPresident Woodrow Wilson knew that a war in Europe was bad for business and US had to enter sooner or later to end the conflict. However, he had little political support and got into propaganda posters. The Posters That Sold World War I to the American Public However, as Germans kept bombing Allied shipping - one of which a passenger vessel heading to New York City (Sinking of the RMS Lusitania) killing 128 Americans, American opinion turned significantly against Germany.British propaganda was also quite intense with themes like The Rape of Belgium that exaggerated the abuses in the German invasion of Belgium and got the Americans quite concerned. The event that finally broke the camel's back was the Zimmermann Telegram - a message from Germany to Mexico that attempted to launch a war into the US from Mexico in case US joined the war and promised Mexico of getting back its states lost to the US in the 19th century.While the US could tolerate sinking of some British vessels and an invasion of a western European country, they historically had very little tolerance for powers interfering in its backyard [such as the Cuban Missile Crisis]. When they learned that the Germans were going behind their backs to Mexico, the American public turned against Germany. While the anti-war advocates initially tried some damage control stating it is a fabrication by the British, Zimmermann himself publicly said he wrote it and that inflamed passions that was already simmering from the previous German-Mexico links [Ypiranga incident]. Within a couple of weeks of Zimmermann's press conference accepting that he sent it, US was in the war. Also see: How can one summarize World War I in ten sentences or fewer?