 Balaji ViswanathanImagine the financial system to be a river. The role of the RBI governor is to lift the dam gates on and off depending on how much water is coming and how much water is needed to fill your buckets. If you keep the tap on for a long time, you would flood the plains leading to destruction, while not opening the gates enough would starve the person waiting with the buckets. Analogous to water supply, there is a concept of money supply. When there is excess money supply, people spend more, borrow more and everything gets very expensive. This is called inflation. When there is low money supply, people buy less, leading to poor economic growth & high unemployment. This is called deflation.To increase money supply, one of the best ways is to reduce interest rate. When interest rates are low, people save less and spend more by borrowing. When they spend more, companies have to produce more and thus they hire more. At a time when unemployment is a concern, this is important. However, if you reduce the interest rate too less, people would spend excessively causing less investments and increase in the price of everything. Since the price rise [inflation] is not a worry right now and India is getting investments from abroad, RBI is forced to reduce interest rates so that unemployment could reduce. The person opening the dam gate might not know all the other sources of water that would join the river past the dam or would exit the river and would have to guess. He might also not know how many people are waiting for the water. There is also a huge lag between the time the dam is opened and time the water arrives. Also, some other smaller dam engineer downstream might block the water or release excess water. The same problem occurs for the RBI governors. The economy is too big to comprehend and there is a huge lag. The different banks also act as small dams with unpredictable openings. Finally a small note on terminology. Basis point in this case refers to 0.01%. Thus, a cut of 50bp means a cut of 0.5% in interest rate. Nothing complicated.