 Balaji Viswanathan"Cheap goods" is the secret to the rise of almost every developed nation. In the 18th century, Indian weavers produced exquisite textiles with silk, cotton, wool and jute. They were stunning. But, they were also very expensive. Then the British found cheap ways to produce clothes. These were not anywhere near as good, but were good enough and were dirt cheap. These could also be run by less trained workers who were much cheaper than trained artisans. This process, now called the "Industrial Revolution" altered world history as Britain jumped to the ranks of developed nations. At no point in time were the mechanized, mass produced clothes better than clothes produced by fine craftsmen. But, they won because they were cheap. Production of cheap textiles led to explosive side effects bringing prosperity to people. In the 19th century, United States had its industrialization and for a long time produced "cheap" industrial goods that were considered inferior in the continental Europe. However, Americans produced a lot and those were quite cheaper compared to what an Italian craftsmen would make.In the 20th century, Japan had its industrialization and started mass producing cheap goods. They tried to replicate every major American company with its own cheap alternative. For instance, Komatsu produced much cheaper machines for construction compared to what Caterpillar offered. The quality and support network were not there, but it was cheap.You don't become rich by selling very expensive, boutique goods. Mass production of cheap stuff has a much higher odds of making you successful. This is why Toyota is so much more valuable as a company than say Porsche or Ferrari. India's service industry is trying to follow the Toyota model - no frills, cheap, reliable output. It is quite cheap and often relies on cheap labor.While Indian service industry initially relied a lot on cheap labor alone, it has increasingly climbed to better processes that makes the output cheaper even with rising labor costs. As long as a labour produces output much above what he earns, he is in a good shape.