 Balaji ViswanathanLet me share my perspective as a "Rebound R2Ier". I came to the US after college and 5 years later returned to India. For the first 2 years my R2I plan [Returning to India] was looking disastrous as my startup went bad. But, in the last 8 months business picked up with sizable profits. Just when I thought my India plan was working well, I made a bad decision return back to the US to scale the business & get an MBA in parallel. Business in US didn't go well and returned back to corporate world to start a family. As my messy history shows, the decision is not easy and there is a constant dilemma as both sides offer something interesting. Here are some reasons in favor of India.Living home: Home means a lot of things - our culture, our nation, our family and so on. Although I love the US and traveled the world, this is not my home just as the priciest of hotel suites cannot match the warmth of our modest home. For some this bond is stronger and those find the most motivation in returning. Opportunities: Many find good opportunities in the US - especially close to the bottom end of the ladder. For the same skillset some might be able to find opportunities couple of steps above on returning. Higher position in a faster growing economy can by itself neutralize other negatives. A couple of my acquaintances returned to India as top executives moving above from middle management in the US.Loneliness: My uncle spent most of his career abroad. He had a well settled life in Missouri with a large home, happy family, great career & friendships. When I sat with him in his last stages of battling cancer, I found how lonely life is even for such a nice person with a large network. His wife & two young children went through that critical stage mostly alone. Those few days of walking in the corridors of that cancer hospital was a brutal experience as I wound men & women sobbing alone as their dear one was dying inside. Best of facilities with very little social support. My attitude towards family, marriage and other things changed in those few days. Staying in touch: Although many have large families in the US, many others have most of their family in India. By being in the US, they lose the connections as they miss weddings, baby showers, betrothals, sacred thread ceremonies, one year birthdays and so on... Money needs a meaning. What good is wealth, when one misses family links?Climate: Many parts of US have extremes of weather. In Boston, it can be nearly six months of snow every year and the cold, darkness can be depressing. India gets hot in summer, but I find the lack of light more depressing than brutal heat [especially where I have A/C]. Some people can even get clinical depression in winter - Seasonal affective disorder (SAD).Raising kids: India arguably offers some benefits for people with kids. Family is closer and child support easier without troubling your parents & in-laws to spend months in the US. Bullying is far less serious and you don't have to worry about shooting [although it is very rare]. I also find some schools paranoid [like the recent case of Ahmed Mohamed]. In India, college is far cheaper and that means you don't need to top up your 529 plans. Festivals and events: On a Diwali day you look out of your Boston home and there is nothing. On August 15 nothing. On Pongal day nothing. In places like Mumbai, the whole of the city would be celebrating for every random event. What is life without that fun.Of course, these all depend on your personal factors. For some, Indian festivals might not be so joyful. For some, their family might not be so warm. For some Indian culture might not be worth preserving. But, for a sizable minority these points apply and they are the ones returning.