 Balaji ViswanathanWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie that Pakistan won the war. We lost terribly in the 1965 war.'History in Pakistan has been badly treated'Hindu morale would not stand more than a couple of hard blows at the right time and place -  -- Gen. Ayub Khan (Pakistan) -- Big Picture: 1965, fifty years laterSince India and Pakistan are part of the UN, there was no way for India to take Pakistan territory & thus end result cannot change borders. The 1965 war between India and Pakistan is thus technically a stalemate, but India considers it a victory due to variety of reasons.1. Pakistan failed its objective & India succeeded itsIn August 1965, Pakistan launched Operation Gibraltar - a massive operation to bring Jammu & Kashmir [of which India controls the biggest chunk] to Pakistani control. This was followed by the failed Operation Grand Slam of September that year (A Battle of Lost Opportunities). Like the May operation, the August operation failed as India not just repulsed the attack, but also gained a chunk of Pakistan territory before agreeing to the ceasefire. Indian objective was to defend its part of Kashmir and it did. Here is what a Brookings scholar writes: The Idea of Pakistan2. Indian Army needed a morale boostIndia was badly shaken by the surprise attack by China in 1962. Its economy was in a very bad shape. Doubts about Indian army existed both in India and Pakistan. Rebounding from a surprise aggression was a good test to Indian army's working. This greatly improved India's confidence and 6 years later it would be bold enough to cut Pakistan into two - creating the new nation of Bangladesh. In that war, while US scowled and Pakistan looked rudderless, India effectively put an end to East Pakistan. Seeds of that was sown in 1965. The Idea of Pakistan:3. Superpower support didn't workIn 1965, Pakistan was emboldened by the fact that 2 of the biggest powers - US and China - were siding it. Pakistan was a member of a number of US-centric treaty organizations like SEATO and CENTO. On the other hand, Indian cooperation with USSR was still nascent. India feared encircled by US backed Pakistan on one side and China on other side. In that sense, India worried not about its little neighbor but the bigger powers behind it. In the end, both China & US provided only partial support to Pakistan and that allayed Indian fears of a circlement. Pakistan was sorely disappointed that no one came to its help. Why Ceasefire?Given the bad economy, scarce ammunition and fear of China, India didn't want to push its luck too far with the captured hundreds of square miles of Pakistani territory, but pushed for a quick ceasefire. The final agreement ensured the continuation of Kashmir's status favorable to India.Rather than tanks and planes destroyed - India's angle was the big picture. It wanted to prove that: its army can recover from the China warit got the reassurance that world would not aid Pakistan in its aggressionit saw that the Kashmiri people didn't rise up to welcome Pakistan it got the idea that east Pakistan was weak and could be separated. Proving those 4 was enough for Indians consider the war a victory.References:Revenge and Reconciliation'History in Pakistan has been badly treated'The Idea of Pakistan Big Picture: 1965, fifty years later