 Xu BeixiAre they afraid customers will steal? This is done even at some places frequented by many Western guests. Most of my friends find it very annoying and silly, like we are not trusted to pay our tab.This is formally known as a Dine and dash, and is not common behavior. If anything, a fine dining restaurant has far more to lose from this, since they have fewer customers, fewer tables, fewer venues- all on top of a bill possibly thousands of times heftier.I would say that this is not a country-specific behavior, but simply depends on the type of restaurants you patronize (in more ways than one, according to your tone above). If you're continuously being asked to pay before you eat, it's because you're going to fast food and fast casual restaurants. The business model and the number of "Western guests" at any given establishment are quite distinct. Conversely, in fine dining establishments, it's understood that the bill will come when you ask it to, since you're paying for ambiance and the experience of a leisurely meal. Please do look into: Types of restaurantFast foodFast food restaurants emphasize speed of service. If table seating is available, ordering is not done from the table but from a front counter. Fast casualFast casual restaurants are primarily chain restaurants, such as Chipotle Mexican Grill and Panera Bread.[3] Fast casual restaurants usually do not offer full table service, but may offer non-disposable plates and cutlery. Casual diningA casual dining restaurant is a restaurant that serves moderately-priced food in a casual atmosphere. Except for buffet-style restaurants, casual dining restaurants typically provide table service. Casual dining restaurants often have a full bar with separate bar staff, a larger beer menu and a limited wine menu. Family styleFamily style restaurants are a type of casual dining restaurants where food is often served on platters and the diners serve themselves.[4] Fine diningFine dining restaurants are full service restaurants with specific dedicated meal courses. Dcor of such restaurants features higher-quality materials, with an eye towards the "atmosphere" desired by the restaurateur. The wait staff is usually highly trained and often wears more formal attire. Fine dining restaurants have certain rules of dining which visitors are generally expected to follow, often including a dress code.In short, if you expect full service, do expect them to request you to pay full price.