 Xu BeixiI'm hoping to share this: far better than anything I could've written about this thorny subject-Talk in person. Invite your friend or family member to chat over coffee or a beer so the atmosphere is more relaxed.Let the relationship guide you. Decide whats more important: getting your money back or staying on good terms with the borrower. 1. Opening gambit. I was happy to lend you the money when you needed it. Thats what friends do.The strategy: Youre gently reminding your pal that you came through when he or she was in trouble.Chances are, the person feels bad about not paying you back. An understanding tone decreases your chances of a hostile response.2. Be direct. When do you think you will be able to pay back the $500 I lent you?The strategy: Hinting will get you nowhere, because the person may misunderstand (perhaps willfully) what youre asking.Like ripping off a Band-Aid, the process will be less painful if you do it quickly and directly.3. Add urgency, as needed. Were going to get hit with some really big tuition bills soon and could really use that money.The strategy: Of course, you dont need to justify asking for your money back, but it can be helpful to cite a pressing reason  as long as its true.4. Provide a deadline. Id really like to get the money back before the end of June.The strategy: Specifying a schedule for payback is crucial. Otherwise, the loan may hang out there indefinitely.5. Offer flexibility. Would it be easier for you to pay me back over time, say, $100 a month?The strategy: If the borrower pushes back or you know he will have a tough time coming up with the cash, breaking repayment into smaller chunks or reaching another compromise.How to Ask a Pal or Relative to Pay You BackIn short, be understanding, be flexible, and be firm but fair. There's no need to explain or justify to us why you chose to do this ("it's out of character", etc.)- the fact that you did suggests you don't feel good about (politely) asking for what's rightly yours. I hope that will be something you can overcome, and here's wishing you the best.Thanks, Nigella. :)