 Xu BeixiFirstly, I think there's a confounding issue here: some (or even most) revenge porn is actually legally produced porn, labeled or simulated to look like the real deal in order to generate clicks and revenue. After all, porn companies are not known for their morals. Also, progress is on the way: 26 States have Revenge Porn Laws - End Revenge Porn- laws do exist to protect the victims, but are sadly insufficient.Thus, revenge porn is currently (and clumsily) dealt with by lawsuits:Man Convicted Under Revenge-Porn Law Sued By Ex-GirlfriendDozens Join 'Revenge Porn' LawsuitTexas woman wins half-million dollar revenge porn lawsuitUS Law Firm Fights Revenge Porn With Copyright Infringement LawsuitsCivil Lawsuit on Revenge PornFrom what I can see, the main tactics that do work are:direct lawsuits at the offending party, who so thoroughly abused the trust of their partnersjoining forces to create bargaining power, or raising awareness by going to the media with these storieshitting the hosting company in their bottom line: especially notorious are texxxan.com and its website hosting company, Domain Names | The World's Largest Domain Name Registrar - GoDaddy. (Or even facebook: Facebook Sued For $123 Million Over 'Revenge Porn')boycott said websites and write the sponsors and advertisers letters and complaints. No kidding- this is what brought down the odious Duggars and what caused TLC to finally pull their show from the air after the child molestation and porn star cheating debacles. Giant corporations can behave much like sociopathic predators; the diffusion of responsibility means none of the individual people working there really need to face the victims and see the effects of their job. But when their wallet is hit, there's where it really hurts. Get them there, I say.and of course, speaking to your state and local legislators. They too, have sponsors and benefactors often known as campaign donors. As cynical as it sounds, if it causes them to bleed money, they can and will react to it. When facing entities so much bigger than yourself, you must always negotiate from a position of strength- and the power is in your vote and your dollar vote.Thanks for the A2A, Alex.