 Xu BeixiWhat motivates them to rape? - I think there are many reasons, but they generally all have some things in common: that is, the entitlement to someone else's body, and the expression of dominance over them. Even opportunistic rape will see this occurring, and this appears to escalate with time- especially if the rapist is not caught, shamed, or disciplined. And even then.Can rapists be doctors, lawyers, educate, or wealthy people? - Absolutely. Highly educated and decorated military man, Col. Russell Williams, who once escorted Queen Elizabeth II (to her right), was such a person. He started with voyeurism, and ended with rape and murder: Murderpedia, the encyclopedia of murderersAnd of course, Bill Cosby, Roman Polanski, Woody Allen, Kobe Bryant, Mike Tyson, the brother of the Sultan of Brunei, Michael Jackson, R. Kelly, CeeLo Green, Julian Assange, Terry Richardson, Tupac Shakur, Gary Glitter, Bryan Singer, have all come under fire for this. (See: http://www.thedailybeast.com/art...)Do they have a common history like child abuse or some other factor in common?- Possibly yes- mostly physical and emotional abuse, and rarer, sexual abuse is present in some of these cases:Evidence of some form of sexual trauma during their developmental years (ages 1 through 15) was found in the life histories of 31 percent of the offenders, while only 3 percent of the control group reported similar experiences. The predominant type of trauma experienced by child molesters was a forcible sexual assault, whereas for rapists the abuse had taken the form of being pressured into sexual activity by an adult. National Criminal Justice Reference ServiceAnd those rapists do report a slew of childhood issues:rapists reported more frequent experiences of physical abuse (68%), parental violence (78%), emotional abuse (70%), and cruelty to animals (68%). Both child sexual abusers and rapists (>93%) reported frequent exposure to violent media during their childhood. Most offenders (94%) described having insecure parental attachment bonds; 76% of rapists reported avoidant parental attachmentsDevelopmental experiences of child sexual abusers and rapists.Nonetheless, it is worthy of note that very few abused children do take this path, and correlation is not causation. Not to mention the fact that self-reporting by rapists and abusers tends to be skewed, since they are not exactly known for their honesty. Ultimately, it all seems to rest on a lack of morality, and taking advantage of another in a vulnerable position without any empathy whatsoever.