 Xu BeixiAbsolutely. There's no question that age gap relationships can indeed work.It's good to consider that you will be likely facing a very different set of problems than couples with no age disparity. And it's worthy of note that the degree of difference matters too:Seven to nine years in either direction is doable without any big issues, but once you start getting to 15 or 20 years age difference, it's nave to think that problems aren't going to arise, says the relationship expert at Marriage SOS.It will also depend on your individual circumstances. Here are the major issues typically found in significant age gap relationships:money is the big one. Typically, the younger party has the youth, beauty, and vigour; the older has wealth, security, and maturity; this always leads to-the careful balance of the power drynamic. The older may end as a mentor or mother-figure to the younger man (in this case).cultural gaps, especially pop culture references, knowledge, and shared events in history- this happens regardless of gender, by the by.the opinions of others. Usually, this shouldn't matter, but by others I also mean your respective sets of parents, friends, colleagues, and so forth. People will nearly always see your relationship with suspicious eyes, accusing you of mommy issues, cradle-robbing, etc. You may not be comfortable with that, especially if it's someone you care about. Media depictions of such relationships are also frequently disrespectful- if not downright deprecatory- hence terms like 'cougar' and 'MILF'.and the constant insecurities that may plague you e.g. will he leave me for someone closer to his own age? Is he only using me? etc.That said, "real love" and "real relationships" are two different things. Couples won't always be in love, and real love doesn't necessarily last. However, people often forget that non-age-disparate relationships are not spared the relationship issues that often occur in age-gap relationships. We're not guaranteed anything on this earth- not our health, our wealth, or even our lives. For what it's worth, happiness and loving relationships are hard to come by at any age. I believe we ought to harvest it where we can, and wish you the best of luck.NB: I realize the media isn't always kind in its depictions of older-women/younger-men relationships, which is why I highly recommend Harold and Maude (1971) - IMDb. Here is their flower scene, and thanks for the A2A!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...