 Xu Beixi"No crime and lots of happy fat women," goes a bit of silly humour.But, let's look to science. There is evidence to show women are actually better at handling money:In Bangladesh, Nobel Prize-winner Muhammad Yunus, creator of the micro-credit phenomenon, has found that women not only repay loans more often than men, but that when women control the money, their families were more likely to benefit from the income.And a study in the Philippines reported that when women have control over a couples savings accounts, expenditures shift towards the purchase of family-targeted durable goods, such as washing machines or kitchen appliances.The Gender of Money, WSJBut do not make more effective leaders, or do- depending on the measures- although they give more down-to-earth self-appraisals:This meta-analysis addresses this debate by quantitatively summarizing gender differences in perceptions of leadership effectiveness across 99 independent samples from 95 studies. Results show that when all leadership contexts are considered, men and women do not differ in perceived leadership effectiveness. Yet, when other-ratings only are examined, women are rated as significantly more effective than men. In contrast, when self-ratings only are examined, men rate themselves as significantly more effective than women rate themselves. Additionally, this synthesis examines the influence of contextual moderators developed from role congruity theory (Eagly & Karau, 2002). Our findings help to extend role congruity theory by demonstrating how it can be supplemented based on other theories in the literature, as well as how the theory can be applied to both female and male leaders. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved)Gender and perceptions of leadership effectiveness: A meta-analysis of contextual moderators.The public also has more trust in a woman's integrity and intelligence, but do not think they will be better leaders:When it comes to honesty, intelligence and a handful of other character traits they value highly in leaders, the public rates women superior to men, according to a new nationwide Pew Research Center Social and Demographic Trends survey.A mere 6% of respondents in this survey of 2,250 adults say that, overall, women make better political leaders than men. About one-in-five (21%) say men make the better leaders, while the vast majority  69%  say men and women make equally good leaders.Men or Women: Whos the Better Leader?And for a summary: Who Makes A Better Leader: A Man Or A Woman? Judging from the research, I think the world will likely see more modesty, more prudent handling of money, but less public faith in its leaders. Overall, the effectiveness of the leadership is likely to remain constant.Thanks, Hunter. I hope you will be back someday to read this.