 Xu BeixiIt's mostly a matter of culture, and Cultural learning.That said, I'm mostly here to question whether these Chinese traditions are indeed "provably untrue".Interestingly, there may be some science behind it.The cold water rule seems un-debateable, because there is no given standard as to what constitutes cold, and how much water is actually drunk. That said, cold can indeed cause vasoconstriction (i.e. blood vessels narrowing) [1], which forms the basis of menstrual cramping, since the pain is what happens when the blood supply is temporarily cut off [2]. However, this definitely would require further studying- since we don't know if the vasoconstriction occurs at the uterine smooth muscle specifically. Moreover, we are warm-blooded animals with a system of internal self-regulation or homeostasis (hence my query on the amount of cold water being drunk). However, it is also unlikely anyone will pay for this research, partly because of the way the scientific industry is run (i.e. nobody truly stands to gain much money from it).[1]Physiological Responses to Cold, Medscape Log In[2] http://www.medicinenet.com/menstrual_cramps/page2.htmAs for spicy foods- what causes the spiciness is a compound known as capsaicin- can indeed have effects on menstruation, as seen in this peer-reviewed Pubmed publication:Capsaicin-induced CGRP-mediated vasodilatation of the human skin: influence of gender, female hormones and migrainePeriod differences in capsaicin-induced DBF were observed after both doses of capsaicin (p<0.001, repeated-measures ANOVA). During menstruation, capsaicin-induced DBF, expressed as AUC, was larger after 300g (1488178 versus 1228157 %.min, p=0.019; paired T-test) and 1000g of capsaicin (1639150 versus 1394163 %.min, p=0.014) compared to the second week of the secretory phase of the menstrual cycle. Analyses of gender differences and migraine patients versus healthy subjects are ongoing and will be presented at the meeting.Results:In healthy women, a hormonal influence on capsaicin-induced CGRP-mediated vasodilation of the skin is observed. In particular, an increased dermal blood flow response is documented during the menstruation period. This could be the result of increased neuronal sensitivity to capsaicin, increased release of CGRP or increased sensitivity to CGRP. These results support the hypothesis that female hormones are related to the susceptibility to migraine.It is also plausible that other adverse side-effects were mistaken for menstrual cramps, or types of inflammation:http://www.uspharmacist.com/cont...it can cause burning or stinging pain to the skin and, if ingested in large amounts by adults or small amounts by children, can produce nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and burning diarrhea. Eye exposure produces intense tearing, pain, conjunctivitis, and blepharospasm.Is Too Much Capsaicin Bad for You? | LIVESTRONG.COMCapsaicin often produces feelings that are similar to stomach pain...capsaicin does cause irritation of the mucous lining in your digestive tract, high levels of capsaicin intake can lead to vomiting and nauseaThat said, I completely disagree with the final postulate. There is ample evidence to show that "western women" (which is not a formal term, nor perhaps a polite one) are indeed asked to rest after a pregnancy:Recovering from birth | womenshealth.govThe Importance of Rest After Giving Birth - HowStuffWorksThe importance of postpartum rest - Keene SentinelThe New Mother - Taking Care of Yourself After Birth - University of Rochester Medical CenterSome as far as 40 days: Mothering the Mother: 40 Days of Rest | Birth Without FearI hope this answers some of your queries. That being said, folk wisdom isn't always right, and certainly isn't reasonable to expect of another culture. Also, I don't think this entirely a "Chinese tradition"- probably more of a Han tradition- given vast cultural differences between the 56 distinct ethnic groups of China. Either way, I hope you've taken away something from this essay. Thank you.