 Do you often go to a car mechanic and tell him he should rather become a nurse so that he can help people better? Sounds idiotic, doesn't it? Well, it's the same when you ask such a question to scientists.1. Science is not a zero sum game, where if you study one thing, you can't study something else.2. Scientists are not uniform bunch or robots who make decision to study X while ignoring Y.3. Scientists are not one small group of people who can devote their time only on one topic at a time. There are tens of thousands of them in each field.There are hundreds of thousands of scientists in the world who are studying different fields of research, from abstract mathematics to neurobiology, from cosmology to drug development. They are in that specific field because they like what they do. If you go to an organic chemist and tell him/her s/he should work on effective nuclear fusion technology, they'd either laugh at you or throw you out. People go into a field of research because they love what they do. I am studying astronomy because I love it, and enjoy doing it. If you ask me to do something else, I won't do it because I have no interest in it.Secondly, there has been significant improvement in our understanding of the human mind in last couple of decades. I don't have any expertise in the field so some expert might chip in to tell you more about the details, but I do read now and then about it, and there has been continuous growth in the field, from both the psychology background as well as from neurobiology. Of course, it takes some time for the new findings to become part of the framework and trickle down to general public. And given how the popular media (movies, tv series, books etc) are still dominated by 18th century (or even worse) ideas about the working of the mind (so many of them still use the "we use only 10% of our brain" bullshit all the time), it isn't a surprise that the common people have very little idea about the advances in the field.I'd rather invert the question and ask, why are we, as humans, spending hundred times more time and money developing stupid apps & devices whose sole intent is to waste more time and money, and not using that to actually fund the research?The main thing stopping better, faster development in scientific research is lack of funding for research. The Higgs Boson should have been discovered in 1995, and not in 2012. The only reason it took 2 decade extra is because of the cancellation of funding for the supercollider. The same goes for the majority of the research that is not directly related or that doesn't have immediate profit to the industry.If you want more scientists to work on understanding of the human brain, and mind, you should ask your government to support more fundamental research. With most of the governments from the developed countries reducing their budgets, with barely any increase in permanent research positions, it becomes difficult to keep the pace of research at high levels.As I said before, scientists are not robots who will work without any reward. They need good salaries, funding, and stable jobs to work well, so make sure your government is funding basic research enough by being vocal about it.Also since you have access to internet, you can start looking for current research as well as reading about it on articles, press releases and blogs. Scientific American Blog Network is one place to start.