 There are two main reasons.1. Physical/practical impossibilities:Let's just get one thing off the mind - travelling faster than light speed is physical impossibility. (Yes there have been theoretical calculations of possibility of "warp drive" but that requires existence of exotic matter which we haven't discovered, and the energy requirements are "astronomical" that make it impossible for any foreseeable future).Other forms of sub-light fast travel (something like 50% speed of light) are only theoretically possible now and will take decades if not centuries before we will be able to have a working model.2. Incentives (the lack of any):We don't even know what is there in our own backyard. Most of the planets and their moons are barely visited, we know so little about them. Just one month ago, we didn't even know how Pluto looked like. We have just started to understand the geology of Mars. There are still several unexplored worlds in the solar system itself, which are within our reach with current technology. Why would you want to give up all the time and money that could be used to explore the solar system (and yes, it is very expensive and time consuming to explore the solar system, and we are already low on budget), and spend it on futile effort that is barely a theoretical possibility?Even if you come up with a way to travel quickly, where are you going to go? Do you even have any idea? If you were standing in front of the US-Congress/Senate, asking them money for funding your super-fast sub-light travel space-ship research, what is going to be your sales pitch? Why would they fund you? Or is your sales pitch: I just want to build a ship that travels pretty fast, but I don't know how long it will take, I don't know where I will go, and I have no idea what I will do with it. Good luck in getting the funding.The best way to go is to do what we are doing now. Before the launch of the Kepler satellite, we knew the existence of barely handful of exoplanets. Now, with the Kepler, we know~ 2000 exoplanets, we are learning more about the exoplanetary systems that are completely different from our own and is challenging the paradigms that were established from the study of solar system. We are also finding more and more planets in the Goldilocks zone, and soon (with the current Kepler, as well as upcoming missions) we will be able to find more and more Earth-like planets. We will get to know how the Universe works this way much better.And last point:>>Like taking an example of NASA discovering a planet similar to earth which is 1400 light years away from us. So what's the purpose of doing so even if we even send a probe to it. Instead discover ways to traverse spacw faster.<<The cost of Kepler Mission >> $600 million (mission time 6 yrs operating & cont + few years of building the instruments).The cost to send a probe to outer solar system (New Horizons) >> $700 million (from 2001-2016)Cost of building a nuclear/antimatter powered spaceship that can travel at speed close to light speed (assuming it is feasible) >> Trillions of dollars in research + decades of investment before the functioning model is ready, and still more decades and centuries of travel time to reach any destination.Please tell me why any government would spend money on the latter, when the technology is not even "within reach", when they could spend it on science that can actually be done now and give results that will help us understand the Universe better.