 The easiest way to fix it would be to have a requirement of a minimum number of answers to be present for the author to qualify for the badge.The main problem with this feature (as I have noted elsewhere) is that it gives puts anyone who has only one answer in the topic (or in many cases, only 1-2 answers overall) in the Top Ten list and gives a badge to their profile. Why is this bad? Because this one answer by such an author could be "most viewed in Topic X" only because someone tagged the question with wrong topics. There is also other problem where some answers go viral quickly, only later people find out that the whole answer is either 'factually wrong' or is 'plagiarized'. And given how slow Quora is in terms of acting over the reports, this answer by said author, which should rather be collapsed, instead now give the author a badge of honour.As an example, just as the feature was implemented last night, I went through the list in the Astrophysics, Cosmology related topics. There were 6 authors out of 10, who had only 1 answer. 2 of them had answered 1 question that was wrongly tagged with topics, 1 was plagiarized answer (and I have reported it. Don't know how long it will take for Quora to collapse it), while 3 were written in the "What are some cool facts about the Universe?", which is a question with high visibility but very low quality. Writing an answer to such a question by copy-pasting "facts" from the internet hardly makes one a reliable writer (if that is the aim of Quora, to give badges to people to show that these people are knowledgeable in that topic).So if 6 out of 10 authors in that list are bunk, should I care for the said badge? I wouldn't.These, and other similar issues, will mean that the badge will be trivialized. It won't mean anything. So there definitely has to be some basic minimum qualification for a person to get such a badge. A few I can suggest are:Minimum total number of answers in the said topic.Minimum of upvotes per view ratio for the answer (so as to avoid answers who have 10k views but barely 5 upvotes).This is actually one of the basic things people at Quora should have considered when creating such badges. Most sports leagues use these minimum requirements when they are calculating statistics for, say for example, best conversion rate by a player/team in football (soccer). They will add a minimum number of minutes played or minimum shots taken as a parameter.It is also one of the most basic things taught in statistical courses, to look for cases and parameters that might cause to have such fluke numbers/outliers because of one-off incidences. This should have been taken care of.