 Thanks for asking Wouter! I blame it all on Science Fiction.Until I was in 8th grade, I was completely clueless about my future. I didn't have many favourite subjects, nor any preferences. At that time, I'd have either followed my sister's footsteps and gone for some engineering or followed some cousins and gone for finance.But then, in that summer after 8th, my parents got me membership for a local library, and after devouring most of their Sherlock Holmes & other crime novels collections, I was looking for something new, and the librarian suggested a couple of Science Fiction novels by Jayant Narlikar. I started reading them, & I loved them! I enjoyed the way he explained different concepts in science very fluidly, as well as showed the human side of science and scientists, and how cool they can be. I followed it up with even more Marathi sci-fi works, some of it were good, some not so. But it really got me hooked up to science.But among all the sci-fi, the coolest was astronomy related, the grandeur, the epicness was of different level. That really got me excited about Astronomy & Astrophysics. I then read the non-fiction by Narlikar, called    (Akashashi Jadale Nate, also available in English as A Cosmic Adventure), which is a complete introduction to Astronomy & Astrophysics for novices. That book, and further reading of several other fiction and non-fiction related to Astronomy led me to the decision that I should also take up Astrophysics.There are different types of people who come to Astrophysics. Some of them come from reading Stephen Hawking-like books, while others come from reading popular media and stargazing. But since I came from the Science Fiction, I was much more inclined towards theoretical Astrophysics, and practical observational Astronomy, and had no interest in stargazing. I never went on any stargazing nights, nor can I tell one star from the other in the sky if I am left outdoors. (I usually joke that the only two astronomical objects I can identify are the Sun and the Moon :D). So by the time I finished high school, I had made up my mind to do PhD in Astrophysics. Now that it is about to come true, I am at a crossroads, not knowing what to do next. Soon, I will find out!