 his trial would take place.The Aftermath: Since Aragorn is dead, the line of the Kings is finally ended. There is no more salvation of Mankind with fresh Elven blood from Arwen. Both Aragorn and Eomer are killed in the Battle in front of the Black Gate, thus the rule of the two kingdoms is passed on to Faramir, the ruling Steward, and Eowyn, the Guardian of the Rohirrim. As both the kingdoms suffered heavy losses in the battles, their populations were severely diminished. So when Faramir married Eowyn, they also decide to merge both the kingdoms, to form a single Kingdom, Hyarmendor. Elrond takes over the guardianship of the North, and assists the Men in the north in forming a democratic state. Galadriel, happy to meet her brother once more, decides that she has had enough of the Middle Earth and departs with Finrod to Valinor, with a heartbroken Arwen, whose grief knows no bound having lost the one she loved, she now rests in the West with Nienna.Okay this was quite a speculative scenario that I have written about, so let me give some reasoning behind it.1. Aragorn, Gandalf and the Company, everyone dies in front of the Black Gate. There is no way they will survive, if Sauron has the Ring.2. Once Sauron has the Ring, the best course of action for the Stewards of Gondor and Rohan is to assemble their folks and run away to shelter. Their heavily diminished armies (from 2-3 battles) cannot withstand the onslaught of the armies of Mordor. I will wager the best place to go for them is Grey Havens.3. Sauron, with the Ring, cannot be defeated by the tiny realms left. Their numbers are too small. To fight is the path to utter destruction. Their only hope lies in the West. It is unimaginable that the remaining Lords (and Ladies) of the Middle Earth would not seek help from the Valar. If I were any of them, that would be my first task, to appoint someone to seek help from the Valar.4. Remember that Valar, though critical I am of their rule, were passive in the dealings of the Middle Earth for a reason. Firstly, they wanted the Men to empower themselves to fight against all evil, and make themselves self-sufficient. They also wanted the Elves to learn from their mistakes. That is why they sent five Wizards to assist the Free Peoples, and not five warrior Maiar, and also why Elrond assumes that the Valar will not allow the Ring to be taken to Valinor, as it is "a problem of the Middle-Earth, and the Middle-Earth has to solve it".But once it becomes clear to them that the Free Peoples of the Middle Earth have failed in their attempts, and their emissaries are all down as well (Two lost in the East, One turned to Evil, One gone native, and the last One who was the hope of all, dies twice), they will realise the need for stronger action, and will quickly send the forces to counter & defeat Sauron.5. An important question that the inquisitive minds might be wondering about: Who would be the messenger? In the First Age, it was the famed and prophesied Earendil the Mariner, who bore the Silmaril on his Voyage to the abode of the Valar. In the Third Age, the most fitting person to bear the message would be Arwen, for who can convince the Valar better than her, but the descendant of Luthien and Earendil, both of whom managed to convince the Valar for their cause. She, bearing the broken Elessar as the token of the broken dreams of both Men and Elves, the token of the defeat of the Free Peoples of the Middle Earth, laments to Manwe & Varda, and moved by her grief, they immediately dispatch the host of Elves to defeat the Dark Lord Sauron. History. Repeats. Itself.