 Let's forget about whether you have a theory or not. Let's start with the basics. Do you know if you have understood basics of physics? Do you have a grasp of the current theories? Let's keep mathematics aside. Do you have physical understanding of the Newtonian mechanics, Electrodynamics, Thermodynamics etc?There is a good book called "Mad about Physics" with a sequel "Mad about Modern Physics". Go through them. They are books with physical problems which can be answered with intuitive understanding without necessity for much maths.How many can you answer without looking at the answer key? Can you get half of them right? If you can't (which from my experience you won't be, as these are meant for undergrads and not middle schoolers), you don't even understand the basics of currejt physics.Now you will ask, why should you care about that. Your theory should stand on its own. Well, the important part of scientific research is not only to come of with a theory, but also to show how different it is from the current ones and if it is better or worse than that. But if you don't even understand the current theory, how are you sure that you arent reinventing the wheel? Another aspect of a theory is that it has several connections with different branches of physics. Does your theory have a commentary about connection with other phenomena? How does your "special relativity" address electrodynamics? I'm pretty sure it doesn't.And lastly, about accusations by many on the other answers saying that the answerer is arrogant or isn't helpful. This kid isn't the first to come up with a "theory" and won't be the last one. I have been active on online discussion forums for almolst a decade now. I have seen hundreds of people coming up with "pictorial theory of relativity" and "can't do math" so need help. 100% of the times they are all bogus. My University email spam folder is filled with people emailing me about their "theories". And I am not alone in this. Almost any physicist receives dozens of these every month. That's why there is a crackpot index (yeah google it. See for yourself how you score on that). I have no sympathy for them.