 I think Thomas has given a good account of what would happen if Sauron were to win the War of the Ring, and was let to rule the Middle Earth. But I don't think it would turn out that way. Let's see how the events turn out.Frodo & Sam are captured at the Guard Tower after the fight between Shagrat and Gorbag doesn't end in bloody mess, there are few survivors, who eventually come to their senses. Sam is unable to overwhelm the remnant of the orcs and is captured as well. The Ring finally reaches in the hands of Sauron, while the leaders of the West are knocking on the Doors of Mordor. Sauron, with the Ring back in hand, goes for a swift victory, surrounding the host of the Men, who are outnumbered heavily. They go down fighting, but in the end, the legions of orcs, Easterlings, and Haradrim, riding on the wave of optimism and turning tide after the reclamation of the Ring from Sauron. Sauron himself comes to the battle to deal the final blow to the last standing Gandalf and Aragorn. The fight lasts for some time, but both Aragorn and Gandalf eventually fall, and are killed by Sauron.A few scouts do make it out of the battle and fly back to Minas Tirith to report. Faramir, the steward of Gondor, makes decisions, and sends messengers to Rivendell, Lorien, Mirkwood and Grey Havens, asking them to unite all elves and defend together. The Gondorians and Rohirrim flee their lands, taking refuge either in the lost caves in the mountains or in Elven realms. Faramir and Eowyn both head to Grey Havens, both as refuge, as well as to arrange for messenger to be sent to Valinor to ask for help, as it is clear the power of Elves and Men (and Dwarves) is not enough to fight the armies of Sauron.Sauron eventually overruns the South, taking over Minas Tirith, Edoras and Isengard. After consolidating the south, Sauron is preparing for the siege of the Elven realms. By this time, the messenger of Cirdan reaches Valinor, and delivers the plea of the Free Peoples of Middle Earth. The Valar have already heard about the state of affairs from the spirit of Gandalf (Olorin) which rests for now in Mandos, and they are contemplating the actions and plans. After listening to the plea of the messenger, they quickly assemble the forces of Elves. The Noldor are eager to help their kindred, and the Teleri join as well as there are no grievances to hold them back this time. The combined forces of Noldor and Teleri elves reach the hither shores as Sauron puts simultaneous siege on Rivendell, Mirkwood and Lorien. The Teleri, high in number and with better ships and weapons, quickly take over Umbar & South Gondor, and cut off the supply lines from Harad to Mordor. The Noldor, along with the Elves from Grey Havens and the Men from Gondor and Rohan, under the stewardship of Faramir attack the forces of Sauron, throwing off the Siege of Rivendell quickly and eventually defeating all the hosts of Mordor near Lorien. The Wood-Elves, with the help of the Men from Dale and Dwarves of the Iron Hills and Lonely Mountain defeat the remnant forces in the region.Sauron, furious with this defeat, challenges the leader of the Noldor for a one-on-one battle. The leader is none other than Finrod Felagund, the High King of Noldor, who was killed, back in the First Age in Minar Tirith by Sauron himself. Long and hard they fought, but Sauron was not the same Great Lieutenant of Morgoth that killed Finrod, for he was diminished in the three ages after pouring his power into his dark business. He was no match for the reincarnated Elf-lord, and thus he was finally defeated, captured and taken to Valinor where