 Complicated. There are exciting times ahead, but the road is filled with pitfalls.Astronomy is at a crossroads right now. Few things have happened in the last decade or two that have changed the landscape of research and has had profound impact on Astronomy.Budget cuts: Astronomy was one of the hardest hit jobs since the recession in 2007-. Most of the Western countries, that were the flag-bearers of Astronomy for years have cut their science budget by large percentage. And since the European financial crisis, most of the southern European countries have cut down their budgets by 50% and lots of jobs have not been continued. (i.e. if a person retires, the position is scrapped instead of hiring someone). There have been very few countries where the budget has been stable and none where it has increased.Emerging markets haven't invested in Astronomy enough to support the number of graduate students they are producing. Countries such as India, Brazil, China etc have increased their science budget but it hasn't trickled down to Astronomy as much yet. The number of permanent positions available hasn't increased a lot.Excessive number of PhDs and postdocs, and not enough permanent positions means that large fraction of people who will graduate around this time won't be in Astronomy for long. Getting permanent positions has become harder and harder, both academically as well as on personal level. After PhD you have to do a couple of postdocs, for which you will have to move across countries/continents every 2-3 yrs, not knowing if you will have a job in hand at the end of it. It is also horrible for personal life as your partner will either have to move with you & look for a job for themselves every time as well, or you live apart from them, or don't have a relationship till you get a permanent position. Not a situation people want to be in.Given these uncertainty of job finding, issues with moving & two body problem, more and more good astronomers are leaving the field for "real world" jobs in finance, data science, IT related fields. So much that there is a brain drain issue that Astronomy will face soon as many talented and good scientists are leaving the field. A corollary to this is that there isn't much room for 'good scientists', only the 'exceptionally good' people will get professorship & permanent position.This was about personal and professional level. Let's talk about scientific future of Astronomy. There are some new telescopes coming up, and many more are going down. There's James Webb Telescope, Thirty Meter Telescope, and the E-ELT in visible-IR band, the Square Kilometer Array in mm-submm band. Unfortunately these are not coming up for a while. JWST is hopefully coming on in 2018, others some time between 2022-25.With each generation, the telescopes are getting bigger and stronger. This means there is some exciting science coming up! The James Webb Space Telescope, if everything goes smoothly, would work many times better than Hubble telescope. We would be able to look at extreme past in the life of the Universe, when it was very young (deeper redshift observations), and we will be able to see the details of many objects with unprecedented accuracy.The Thirty Meter Telescope (TMT) and the E-ELT are even bigger marvels. They are the successors of highly successful Keck Telescope & the VLT. While the previous generation was just 8-10 meter class, the new generation would be 30-38 meters in diameter. With this, we will be able to see the intricate details about the vicinity of the supermassive black holes. We would get high resolution images of extrasolar objects, with possibility of detecting Earth-like planets, and direct imaging of larger planets. Just like the JWST, there would be possibility of studying high redshift universe, as well as studying the local universe with very high resolution. These are exciting goal, and would lead to several key iconic