 When we talk about the center of the Milky Way galaxy (Galactic Center/GC in short), we don't just mean the supermassive black hole (SMBH) in the middle, but the whole central environment. The nucleus of the Milky Way is 100 pc across, which contains several stellar clusters, such as the Arches Cluster and the Quintuplet Cluster, as well as filaments of dust and gas which are heated up by the radiation from the stars, and are birthplaces of young stars (yellow in color as seen image 1). The X-ray traces the high energy emission from the accretion of material on compact sources and black holes. Sagittarius A complex is the brightest region in X-ray light, arising from the diffused gas that has been heated to several million degrees of temperature by stellar winds, and outflows from stellar explosions and from the SMBH.{Image 1: A combined image of the Galactic Center as seen from the Hubble Space Telescope in near-infrared, Spitzer Space Telescope in infrared, and Chandra X-ray Observatory in X-ray light. (Image credit: NASA/ESA/SSC/CXC/STScI)}The inner few parsecs of the Milky Way galaxy is a complex and dynamic environment, with Sgr A*, the supermassive black hole at the dynamic center, and surrounded by the stellar cluster of young and evolved stars, interstellar medium with diffuse hot gas, molecular dusty ring and supernova-like remnants. The interstellar medium in the GC region is mostly distributed in giant molecular clouds. The central few parsecs of the GC consist of a circumnuclear disk (CND) of neutral atomic gas, enclosing a cavity of relatively less density containing atomic and ionized gas. Close to Sgr A* within 11.5 pc lies a region called Sgr A West, which contains the mini-spiral. These are ionized clumpy filaments or streamers that orbit Sgr A*.{Image 2: Integrated 8.3 GHz image of the mini-spiral with marked components, the Western arc, the Northern and Eastern arms, and the extended bar. (Image: Zhao et. al. 2009)}The Western arc of the streamer is most likely on a circular orbit, while the other components, i.e. the Northern, and Eastern arms and the barpenetrate deep into the central region within few arcsecond from Sgr A* and have highly elliptical orbits. These filaments are ionized by the ultraviolet radiation from the massive young stars. Of the [math]300 M_{\odot}[/math] neutral atomic gas and few [math]M_{\odot}[/math] of warm dust, large fraction is associated with the mini-spiral streamers, while the ionizing fronts are thought to be interfaces between the low density and high density regions described by the neutral ring (CND).The circumnuclear disk is a dense torus-like ring or a disk surrounds the central parsec of the GC. It consists of clouds of dense molecular gas and warm dust of about 10 4 solar mass of gas and dust. It rotates around the center in a circular orbit, with a sharp edge at 1.5 pc and extends upto5  7 pc from the center.{Image 3: Schematic diagram of the Sgr A Complex as seen in the plane of the sky. The CND is the black ring inside Western Streamer. The three armed structure - the mini-spiral, & black dot inside shows position of Sgr A* (Image: Herrnstein & Ho 2005)}The central parsec of the Galactic Center contains a dense star cluster, with Sgr A* at the dynamical center. It is an extremely dense cluster that contains mainly late-type red giants, including the asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars. The spectroscopic observations also reveal hot early-type stars with strong winds exhibiting helium and hydrogen emission lines (He stars). These stars are generally characterized as the post main sequence Ofpe/WN9 stars, while some show characteristics of luminous blue variable (LBV) stars and Wolf-Rayet stars. The GC also contains several lumi-nous extended sources, which have now been known as bow shock sources, such as IRS 1W, 2, 5, 10W, and 21. These are caused by bright stars expelling strong winds through the ambient gas and dust of the northern arm. The central arcsecond near to Sgr A* has a star cluster containing high velocity stars called the S-star Cluster.{Image 4: A composite NIR image (  = 1.5  4m ) of the GC environment within the central parsec with the most prominent sources. The image is taken with NACO instrument at European Southern Observatorys Very Large Telescope. (Image: GC webpage of I. Physikalisches Institut, University of Cologne.)}At the extreme dynamical center is of course, the supermassive black hole, called Sagittarius A*. I have written about it in detail in my answer to Is it possible for there to be no significant mass inside of the super-massive black hole in the center of The Milky Way? and Why are the stars in the Sagittarius A* region presumed to orbit a supermassive black hole and not just the barycentre of the galaxy?[Parts of this answer are excerpts from my PhD thesis.]