 It is definitely unusual for amateurs to publish papers. It is extremely unusual to have papers published by only amateurs. (In this paper mentioned, the amateur astronomers were responsible only for the early discovery phase, but not in any other phases). The reason for this is simple. For last 3-4 decades, the astronomical instruments have become increasingly expensive, so much so that for the next generation telescope, single countries cannot afford them, and have to make large international collaborations to afford them. Thus, when these telescopes have been built, the telescope time is fought for by professional astronomers. Anything significant science that could be done with smaller telescopes has been done in last 4-5 decades. Also, the field of Astronomy & Astrophysics has evolved in terms of theory and analysis techniques that it's difficult for amateur astronomers to make meaningful contribution in the analysis, nor to the paper writing process, which in itself requires formal training.In recent times though, with a few different "citizen scientist" programs that have sprung up, there will be more chances for amateurs to get involved in the discovery part. These usually involve going through large data from large astronomical surveys, to look for peculiarities that may lead to discoveries. Right now this is mainly possible because the process is not automated and human eye is still better at pattern recognition and finding out weird peculiarities than our current algorithms. But it may not last for long time. The "citizen scientists" programs are no different than the "human computers" from the 1940's (i.e. actual humans, mostly women, doing all the calculations by hand). But once the computers got better at their jobs, the need for human involvement went down. Same will happen in similar programs. Already many processes in the Astronomical observations are being automated. And in next couple of decades the data processing techniques will be completely automated (assuming that such is possible), and won't require human involvement in the detection procedure.An example of this can already be seen in X-ray and Gamma ray telescopes where the triggering of Gamma Ray bursts is a completely automated procedure, so when there is a detection of excess radiation, the telescope & their software automatically sends notification to astronomers about the event. In the future, there will be more sophisticated mechanisms that will be used to make it easy for the astronomers to make discoveries.Thus if any amateurs want to get involved in such citizen scientist programs and help in making discoveries, next 1-2 decades are their best chance to make significant contributions.