 I have already discussed in detail about how we came to know that there is a supermassive black hole (SMBH) at the center of the Milky Way in Abhijeet Borkar's answer to Is it possible for there to be no significant mass inside of the super-massive black hole in the center of The Milky Way? This answer is more or less a "logical" exercise in showing why the stars are not just going around the empty barycenter of the Galaxy.There are three steps for this answer:1. Is there something at the dynamic center?To know if the stars at the center of the Galaxy are orbiting an empty barycenter or if they are orbiting something else, a compact massive object, we simply have to look if there is something there or not. In 1971, Lynden-Bell & Rees, applying the quasar model to our Galaxy, suggested that it should also have a central SMBH. They suggested that it would be detected in radio wavelengths. And in 1974 Balick & Brown did find a very strong radio source at the position where it was predicted. And it has been observed extremely regularly since then and Brown et. al. called it Sagittarius A* (Sgr A* for short).What does that tell us? It tells us that it is not a transient, temporary phenomenon. It is a constant source that is visible all the time (you just have to have right kind of telescope looking at the right place).Subsequent observations also told us that it is not a source that is off-center, but it lies exactly at the dynamic center of the stars in the central parsec (~3.2 light years) and the gas clouds and streamers that rotate around the center.If the stars were going around the barycenter, we would not find such a constant source which is at the dynamic center, but we would see just emptiness. Since we do see a source that is constant, permanently visible (the only times it is not visible is when the Galactic Center is exactly behind the Sun as we look from the Earth). Also, stars going around a barycenter wouldn't be travelling at extremely high speeds like the way S-cluster stars do.So at this point we know that there is something at the exact center which is a very strong source of radiation, and not nothing. That brings us to next question.2. Is that something stationary at the center?Is that something that we see there, has it been there for a long time or is it just 'driving through'? Well, thankfully for us, people have studied that as well. There have been calculations of the proper motion of the source with respect to galactic sources as well as extra-galactic sources. This is what they found:This image shows the motion of Sgr A* with calculated by using the source J1745-283 as a reference. The units are milliarcsecond. The graph above shows the motion before removing the contribution because of our own motion (i.e. the solar system) in the galaxy. Once you subtract all such contribution, what you get is that the source Sgr A* is moving along the plane of galaxy at the speed of 18 +- 7 km/s and perpendicular to the galactic plane at 0.4 +- 0.9 km/s. That is practically stationary given that the stars in the vicinity (esp. star S2) are moving at extraordinary speeds (S2 is moving at relativistic speed at ~1.67 % the speed of light) [for reference, see Reid & Brunthaler, 2004)].So we have establishes that we see something at the center and it is practically stationary (i.e. it isn't just passing through). So we come to the last question.3. How big is that something?From the calculations of the motion that I mentioned in the last point, we can estimate the lower limit on the size of the source. It comes out to be about [math] \sim 0.4 \times 10^6 M_{\odot} [/math] within few AU distance. This is one independent estimate. The other estimate comes from the famous calculation from the motion of the S-cluster stars, as I have mentioned in my answer to Is it possible for there to be no significant mass inside of the super-massive black hole in the center of The Milky Way? From that method, we get the total mass to be [math] 4 \times 10^6 M_{\odot} [/math] within 100 AU. As we can see, we have two independent observations of the mass & size of the source, which agree with each other. (And yes, there have been several more observations and calculations that have improved the numbers). All of these point towards the conclusion that the source Sgr A* is a supermassive black hole. But I'll give you even more. We can not only see the light from the accretion of Sgr A*, we can also calculate the spectrum as well as the "lightcurves" i.e. the time series of how much the light varies with time. And the values we get are also quite similar to what we see in other galaxies which harbour a low-luminosity active galactic nucleus (LLAGN) in their centers which are fueled by SMBHs.From all of the above, we can safely conclude that the stars in the center of the Milky Way are not going around an empty barycenter but around a supermassive black hole.