 discoveries & possibility of some Nobel prizes as well. Also possible with these is the study of dark matter and dark energy. We will be able to constrain several key parameters and possibly understand what these two are made up of.Similar stuff can be said about the SKA, Giant Magellan Telescope etc.But this has downsides as well. The bigger the telescopes get, the more expensive they are to make. And then a single country can no longer build that telescope alone. They have to collaborate. For example, the E-ELT is a collaboration of several European nations under the ESO with other countries as well. There are 11 contributing countries to the TMT. Similar number for the SKA.What that means is that we cannot have more than one-two telescopes of the same size working at a time. And that is going to affect science a lot! The science in Astronomy depends upon observation time. The more time you have, the more science you can do. That means that larger the number of telescope, more science can be done simultaneously. But with only 1-2 telescopes of the same class, & with only 24 hrs in a day (which isn't going to change), only limited time is available. This is going to lead to "rich getting richer & poor getting poorer". The telescope time for observations is based on 2 criterion: 1. If you contributed to making the telescope, you can get some designated time.2. If you didn't, you send a proposal with your science case, and have to fight with others for telescope time.Usually the institutes contributing to building the telescopes are the rich institutes with lots of money. So they generally get a lot of time. And then in #2, if there are (say) 2 proposals for same science case from 2 institutes, the chances are that the high ranked institute/professor will be given observation time (not always, but more likely). Given these, it will become more and more difficult for low & medium ranking institutes to contribute significantly to the cutting edge science. (Same is the case with computational astrophysics, where there are limited number of supercomputers available and only those with access to the best of them can do cutting edge science. The rest have to live with sub-par results, even though their idea was very good.)Another issue with the large telescopes is that they are prone to delays and downsizing due to budget cuts. The JWST was originally supposed to go up by 2011, I am still not 100% sure if it will go up by 2018. Reason: budget cuts. The E-ELT was originally planned to be a 60 meter telescope. Budget cuts meant it downsized to 42 and then 38 meters. There are still question marks over whether that will be the final size. The TMT is also faced financial troubles as nations took their time to commit to the money and instrumentation. It is also now is in the middle of crisis due to the Mauna Kea protests.Even though astronomical instruments have always outperformed their lifetimes, and have usually been huge successes, there is still huge reluctance from the governments around the world to fund it properly. Given the problems I mentioned in part 1, and the problems with the number of telescopes going down and them getting delayed, there are going to be several issues, and possibly mass-exodus of large number of good astronomers outside academia.Disclaimer: Yes this answer is gloomy and probably gives a one sided view of the situation. But it is a side that is important to be considered by anyone who is serious about career in astronomy. I also didn't discuss most of the science prospects of astronomy mainly because those can be easily read by just going to the respective websites of the telescopes. For example: ESO - E-ELT Science and http://www.tmt.org/science-case.One thing people must keep in mind that scientific output is only a part of research, and other points that I have mentioned are equally important to the future of Astrophysics research.