 The rest of Maharashtra (MH) is not a homogeneous entity as some people might think. Maharashtra is similar in size and population as Germany, and is as much (or even more) culturally diverse than the European country. Konkan, Western MH, Marathwada, Vidarbha, North MH are all culturally quite diverse. But there are certain commonalities that do set Mumbai apart from the rest of Maharashtra. Here are some of those:Mumbai is a true cosmopolitan metro city. Due to being the financial capital for as long as it existed, it has attracted people from all over the country, and thus it has a much more mixed population spanning all cultures from the country. Most of the cities/towns/villages in rest of Maharashtra are predominantly Marathi. Only in the last decade or so, Pune has come to become a proper cosmopolitan city due to large influx of immigrants from the rest of India due to the IT boom.Mumbai is stereotypical fast paced, happening, busy busy city. In comparison, the rest of MH is much more laid back, and, as the phrase goes, isn't tied to their wristwatch. An average middle class Mumbaikar spends much longer time travelling to and from work in crowded public transports than an average middle class person in the rest of MH.Apart from Mumbai and Pune, the mall-giant supermarket-shopping culture hasn't caught on in the rest of MH. In many smaller cities, the malls opened and closed soon as the novelty wore out.A very important aspect (which many people easily forget) is that Mumbai (even greater Mumbai including several suburban and surrounding districts) is predominantly urban, while about 55% of rest of MH lives in rural areas. This has its effects on the culture, as well as the lifestyle of people, and their needs and demands.These are some of the points that I could think of off the top of my head. Hopefully others will give their inputs about the differences they perceive (and I hope people won't parrot the same quotes from Mumbaikar, Punekar, ki Nagpurkar from P. L. Deshpande.)