 Studying during a PhD is completely different from studying while bachelor's or master's. One of the perks of doing a doctorate is that the "easy" sources of knowledge have run out of being helpful. Books that explain everything in detail become rare, Wikipedia has no pages to your query, and your google search returns 3 spam-ish links and 6 unrelated links from that one word you used in you query in when ask google about your research, or several pages of completely unrelated garbage.The best sources of study are research papers. These are the staple food for research, just as text-books are for undergrads. They provide the (almost) exact details about the methods of research, special techniques that are used, as well as latest results and opinions about the topic. To get the general overviews of the topics, Review Papers are a good place to look for, as they contain several key developments in a certain topic, a wide historic overview and a good summary of consensus and position of the topic in the with a global view.Another good way of learning during PhD is attending dedicated schools (i.e. ~week long schools on specific topic, not grad school), workshops and conferences. They give you a quick dose of necessary knowledge in very short time, which you can later explore on your own. You also get to meet several people working in similar areas and discuss the topics, and learn from each other. A lot can be learnt from the seminars given at the institutes as well. In many (if not most) research institutes, graduate students are required to give a talk every few months (either at the working group level, or institute level, or both). This is a great way of learning what techniques people are using, what problems they face and how they overcome. This is really important during your PhD. There are also invited seminar (or guest seminars) where visiting scientists from different institutes present their work. These might be seminars discussing specific research of that person, or could be broader seminars giving an overview of the topic. Both are useful in learning and exchange of knowledge.For some broad scale and a bit older content, there are several books that one can refer to, which may be on general topics in your subject or discussing specific topics in that subject. And if one of completely new to a topic, then one can always attend courses at the University during the PhD (or as it is becoming more prevalent these days, online as well).