 Antariksh BothaleI dont think Mood Indigo or IIT Bombay are at fault just because Palash Sen said something during Mood Indigo. As a matter of fact, if anything should tarnish IIT Bombays reputation, it should be the fact that Palash Sen said nothing that is not already expressed overtly or covertly in the male-dominated culture of the institute [1]. The fact that most of the crowd cheered him instead of booing him is more telling. However, these are useful lessons for the future for everyone involved.Is Palash Sen sexist at heart? Does he lack respect for women? I don't know nor do I care. So, articles trying to prove that he is not sexist because he treats his coworkers well or because he wrote a song about mothers are not really relevant to the issue. The world probably won't become a better place even if we somehow proved so, because the issue isnt about who he is, but what he did.Specifically over-targeting Palash Sen, baying for his blood, calling for blanket bans on Euphoria, trying to somehow establish that he is sexist and an evil man, and other hyperbolic actions like these serve only to derail the actual issue that the Mood Indigo debacle has highlighted. And it's not often that such issues come into limelight. So lets use this opportunity to step back a bit and take stock of the situation instead of fulminating all over the internet.(In this answer, I will not use words that tend to bucket individual into 'opinion / action groups', such as feminists, misogynists, and the like. Let's attempt to see the whole issue without labels.)The first step is to understand why a certain faction of the society is displeased with what took place at the Euphoria concert at Mood Indigo. Mind you, what Palash Sen said is neither new in content nor category. As far as content goes, I am sure you've all heard stuff like this countless times. As for category, it was very representative of the kind of speech that peddles reductionary class-based stereotypes. There are reasons why such comments are frowned upon, and they have nothing to do with Palash Sen, Mood Indigo, or Euphoria. First, lets talk about stereotypes:Stereotyping by itself isn't always necessarily harmful. The key here is to understand what kind of environment a particular stereotype creates or perpetuates [2]. For instance, in India, you may stereotype Bengalis as fond of sweets, or Tamilians as fond of curd rice. In absence of any other relevant evidence, this is a fairly harmless stereotype. However, if Bengalis are being systematically and unfairly persecuted by other communities because of their fondness for sweets, or if someone who doesnt like curd rice is systematically denying Tamilians equal opportunities just because they are from the South, it is easy to see how invoking such stereotypes would be below the belt.The second thing of note is that merely the fact that a stereotype is statistically correct doesn't make it okay to peddle it. It doesn't take a genius to observe that there are fewer women than men in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) fields, while the reverse may hold for, say, the liberal arts. However, using this as proof that 'men are for brains' while women are for beauty is not correct. Additionally, it is important to realize that a possible reason for not too many women being in STEM fields is the fact that their participation receives significantly more social resistance than that received by men (if any). They also receive a continuous stream of both subliminal and overt messaging that discourages them from pursuing these fields. And when some of them do get into institutes like the IITs, they enter a male dominated world where guys are taught that IITian girls are ugly and non-male and what not. As if that were not enough, entertainers come to their cultural festivals and peddle this very stereotype again. And again. And again. Do you see why this is a problem?Two negatives stereotypes don't cancel each other. Saying 'girls are for beauty' doesn't become alright just because you also say 'boys are for intelligence'. A couple of answers here seem to suggest that it's okay for someone to peddle patriarchal stereotypes if everyone is equally insulted. Sorry, but it doesn't work that way. Saying that boys shouldn't / can't cook is as bad as saying that girls shouldn't / can't, say, drive. Both perpetuate hetero-normative gender stereotypes. Palash Sen's comments feed into the very same patriarchal stereotypes, and are hence being considered to be in bad taste. Not only is mindless stereotyping therefore problematic in itself, but in a lot of cases, this affront comes from a privileged group that was often primarily responsible for causing the marginalization of the group that they are now mocking. Imagine being excessively bullied in school, being made to resent your existence, and then being laughed at by those very bullies for being in the wretched state you are in. Now imagine this happening day in and day out. Whether it be men mocking women, or whites mocking blacks, or the straight community mocking the LGBTQ community, such behavior is not too different from bullying.Whatever be the issue, such cavalier commentary is often so commonplace that most dont even realize that it is potentially harmful, and most dont realize that those who raise voices against it arent necessarily doing it for publicity.The second step is to realize that, as members of a class that has historically been privileged, it is not always easy for people to see or notice this disparity or discrimination. How many of you who are right-handed have noticed that the desks in many classrooms are much more difficult to use if you are left-handed? If you hadnt noticed this so far, that does NOT mean that you hate left-handed people. It doesnt mean that you dont want to help them. It just means that you have hitherto been completely unexposed to the problems of being left-handed because you have been lucky enough to have the world designed for the default setting that you belonged to. And that is perfectly fine. But when someone does point out why this is problematic, I think they deserve to be heard instead of being typecast as pseudo-whatever. IIT Bombay has now officially banned Euphoria. This is a bit like suspending a police officer for taking a 200-rupee bribe, or failing a student for cheating when everyone knows that most others cheated too. Its technically correct, but it doesnt necessarily improve anything in itself unless the system is cleansed too, because the police officer is mostly just a symptom of the bigger problem. [Later edit: I completely agree that celebrities (or anyone with a larger reach) should hold themselves to higher standards than others. But, these standards will come into place only when people realize and accept that there IS indeed a problem if you say in front of 10000 people that women are for beauty and men for intelligence. What annoys me isn't that Palash Sen said those things, but the fact that he so steadfastly refuses to acknowledge that they could indeed be problematic. It is clear that it's not a 'communication gap', since his clarifications are as incriminating as the initial claims. We all do slip up at times, but given time to look back at our actions, we should realize and own up if they were problematic. Palash Sen has refused to do that, and instead chose to bully those who raised their voice.So, not only did Palash Sen not show basic empathy, he: A) Trivialized the protest and mocked the protesters by making the facetious remark that they perhaps wanted to call him sexy/sexiest and not sexist. B) Refused to accept that what he said was problematic in any way. C) Tried to absolve himself of basic responsible behavior by implying that he didn't need to be mindful of what he said because he isn't a social activist.These are not signs of a man who hates women. But these certainly are signs of a man who, though he might respect women, is simply oblivious to the kinds of issues that plague our society. I expect better from our celebrities and role models.]And so, if our educational institutes really care, there is significantly more to be done by way of educating the thousands that pass through them, so that the next time someone says something like this at MI, we dont see statuses on FB suggesting that girls just cant take a joke.P.S. There are some additional issues here, which deserve some discussion, but this answer has already gotten too long, so I will probably write about them on my blog instead.[1] Let's get rid of the misogyny, shall we? - Antariksh's Blog [2] Gender Identity: What is wrong with sex-typing?