 Antariksh BothaleOne of the first things taught in an introductory linguistics course is that our knowledge of our native language is tacit knowledge. It is notoriously difficult to actually write down the patterns that you observe in a language. But ask any native speaker if a sentence is grammatical, and they would tell you their judgment instantly.When people formally study their native language, or see others studying it, they are often introduced to the correctness conditions [1] of their language, or to interesting phono-morpho-syntactic tid-bits. This can be very fascinating, and very revealing, since they had probably never looked at their native language in that light. For instance, Hindi speakers might tell you that the Hindi spelling system is very phonetic and exactly represents words as they are spoken, but probably never realized that they pronounce a word like  in     differently from that in     (the nasalization in the terminal vowel of the second word is irrelevant to the example).There's also another factor in play here. Some people might still associate 'complexity' with language superiority or with a language being more developed / advanced / evolved (or similar pseudo-scientific terminology) based on how complex it is. And so there is some pressure towards maintaining the status of your language by asserting that it's fairly complex. Note that this doesn't mean that languages absolutely don't differ in their degrees of learning difficulty. Different aspects of a language may be of varying levels of difficulty for a learner based on the languages they already speak. And it is possible that aspects of a language may take a child slightly longer to pick up. But, in general, it's not a good idea to trust uninformed native intuition about the difficult level of their language.[1] I deliberately refrain from calling them 'rules' since most people interpret that as a normative statement about language, which it isn't. The term correctness conditions has been taken from Ideology, Power, and Linguistic Theory by Prof G. K. Pullum.