 Antariksh BothaleA lot of people love traveling on freeways since it helps reduce travel time, lets you drive faster than you can in cities, and doesn't have a red light every couple of hundred feet. But how many people care about the US freeway system enough to memorize which freeway passes through which city (even in parts of the country they have never visited or care about) or to study the intricacies of freeway intersection design despite no other specific interest in Civil Engineering?(Source: Wikipedia)The first category of people I have described have largely a functional interest in those respective topics, such as liking cars because they help you move. The second category's chief motivation for their interest from an inherent enthusiasm or devotion for that subject matter which goes far beyond what the functional requirements it can (or needs to) serve, such as identifying a car from the skid-pattern its tires make, a skill that is of little use outside of forensics. I should point out here that not all such people manage to invest all the time that's needed to pursue this interest, but a lot of them do want to.The general term for such people is geeks. Geek is not a universal label. It usually goes with specific subject-matter, such as car-geek, or train-geek, or astronomy-geek (though it is true that without the specific label, a geek is usually assumed to be a tech-geek, but that's besides the point).People like to put themselves into such labeled groups because it is a means of self-identification, and also simultaneously a means of signaling to and finding others with similar interests. It can be intensely frustrating to have a hobby that you do not share with anyone around you. Worse, it's absolutely soul-crushing to be surrounded by people who not only don't share your hobby, but can't associate with that sort of crazed up geeky obsession with anything.And so if you are like a friend of mine, you'd join the Indian Railways Fan Club mailing list and would love to discuss this topic with others who can identify the make of a diesel engine by the sound of its horn.That brings us to food. Many people use the term foodies to refer to food geeks. I personally am not a fan of the word, largely because it sounds kinda childish, and, like most labels, it tends to be applied to anyone and everyone and sort of loses the point. But the ultimate arbiter of language is usage, so I am fine if someone wishes to describe themselves using it. Also, I am very skinny, and the first question people ask is "But if you love food how come you are so thin!?". Another is "But IITians to kuchh bhi khaa lete hain naa" [But IITians can anyway eat anything right]. That gets tiring fast.You might be a food geek, if, as some others have suggested, you care about more than just the functional use of food. You care about knowing more about how it's made, possibly making it yourselves, about what goes into it and how the various ingredients contribute to the final taste, about possessing interesting tools, devices, utensils etc to help you in your cooking, and about the kinds of skills people who cook food professionally exhibit (I have spent way too much time staring at cooks deftly throwing dough into the air to roll it for Pizza bases or Rumali Roti, and at people chopping onions at blazing speed):https://youtu.be/0tpvNUH3KDI?t=5sSo, yes, there is more to being a food-geek than just wanting to eat food. And people who share that extra enthusiasm for food like to identify themselves and possibly others.