 Antariksh BothaleThe US gets a lot of flak for not using the metric system in everyday life. Why they don't change is easy to understand (it's a huge pain in the ass, with hardly any return). But it's not like the metric system is a perfect, universally applicable system.Powers of 10 are great for scientific calculations, but they are mostly terrible for visualization or approximation in everyday life. A centimeter is often too small and a meter often too big, and no one uses decimeter, so it doesn't matter that it exists. Because of the factor of 10, these units aren't conveniently divisible into thirds or fourths, which is again not conducive to everyday use. Think of recipes, for example. The cup, tea-spoon, table-spoon, fl. oz. system provides an easy, small-whole-number system for converting quantities. It is true that the non-standardization of what a cup or spoon is leads to inexactness, but in most cases, you can still scale recipes by using relative units. You ought to choose units based on what you are measuring. Height, for example is mostly measured in feet and inches even in India, and I find it more convenient than using the meters scale where most people would be between 1.5 and 2. Another example is temperature--the boiling point of water, no matter how important it is to Science, is of little consequence in every day life, especially since even temperatures lower than that are dangerous for humans. The freezing point calibration is more meaningful for people living in cold areas, but like another answer suggested, having a scale which uses the lowest and highest ambient temperatures you will experience as 0 and 100 anchors is pretty meaningful. So, there is nothing inherently 'practical' about the Celsius scale, and it could be argued that the Fahrenheit scale is more 'natural' for daily use.It is easy to visualize a quantity double or triple of a given amount; it's not easy to reliably visualize 10x of a quantity. For instance, you can see how big a centimeter is, but it doesn't instantly give you intuition for how big a meter would be. And visualizing 1000 such meters is again not trivial. So it's not like the 10x multiplier helps a lot in everyday life. If you are measuring driving distance, the fact that a centimeter is one ten-thousandth of a kilometer is largely useless. So a mile is equally well suited for expressing such distances, since both are arbitrary units anyway.The moral of the story is that while the merits of using metric units in scientific computation are plenty, they are not necessarily the most natural units to use for everyday life. Of course, it is possible to use them, like Europe does, but the best strategy of course is to use whatever tool you find convenient for your purpose.