 Antariksh BothaleToday is 4th July, the American Independence Day. The American Declaration of Independence contains the lines:"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are LIFE, LIBERTY AND THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS."Extremely lofty ideals, undersigned by people who owned multiple slaves on their estates, while asserting and championing the cause of Equality.I imagine this question resonates with a lot of people who are probably reluctant to ask the same thing out aloud for fear of having some unpleasant label (sexist!, misogynist!, entitled male douchebag!, mail chauvinist pig) stuck onto them. The problem with replacing 'feminism' with 'equal gender rights' is that it, to a certain extent, trivializes or hides the fact that it is indeed women who've gotten the raw end of the deal across the years, and that actions specific to reversing this need to be taken to undo the mindsets of the people, and the consequence of the current eco-system. It is true that gender normativism, gender stereotypes, patriarchy and related factors hurt everyone. It hurts the woman whose gender becomes an automatic and unfair metric for judging her technical skills.It hurts the man who can't pursue fields that interest him and is forced to study 'engineering' because 'soft fields are for women' and because 'how will he run a family with his arts degree?'It hurts the couple who would probably be better off if the wife with better educational qualifications and experience worked and earned for the family and the husband with a knack for parenting stayed home and took care of the kids.It is also true that, as a corollary of the above, both genders also get superficial 'perks'. Listing just a couple:Women receive perks from the medieval concept of 'chivalry': there is the expectation that men would pay for them on dates, offer them seats on the bus, brave the cold to keep them warm, get into fights to 'protect their honor' and what not.Deifying women and putting them on a pedestal: this is common in Indian culture, for example, with women being called 'Devis' (Goddesses). The flip side of this 'respect' is even less independence.The stuff written here is particularly dangerous, since it promotes an insidious culture that conveys the impression that there is a perfectly level playing field for men and women. In other words, it results in women winning minor so-called skirmishes (not having to pay for meals) while massively losing the actual battle (not having autonomy in general). It also leads to a certain feeling of entitlement on the part of men, who are raised to believe that they 'deserve' female companionship (or, sometimes, more bluntly, sex) because they 'did their part' (paid on dates, bought expensive gifts, went around shopping, and what not). This manifests itself in various forms, from the fashionable concept of the Friendzone, to more drastic consequences such as the Isla Vista killings.Finally, the root cause of injustices against both men and women is the patriarchal framework. For instance, men find it tougher to get custody because of the inherent assumption that women are better care givers, and what not. My problem with 'Equalism' is that it sets a target that most reasonable people cannot disagree with, without providing clarity about what exactly needs to be done, and masking out the fact that the playing field is tilted in one very-specific direction. As Eivind says in Eivind Kjrstad's answer to Is there a gender-neutral term for feminism?, the term would be fine "if the world we live in was roughly balanced between women and men", which it isn't.There is a FB group called "IITians against rape". It's a bunch of very well-meaning people, but I find the name rather hilarious. Being against rape is like the most trivial lower bound I expect IITians (or any decent human being) to pass; however, as I pointed out in Let's get rid of the misogyny, shall we?, well-meaning people who do not rape can still behave irresponsibly in other ways. "Humans for equalism" is then similar to saying "IITians against rape". It is not wrong, but, as long as there remain inequities, whitewashing them with neutral terms or trivial objectives isn't going to cut it.[1] I don't wish to convey that 'not having to pay for meals' is a female aspiration; all I am saying that, everything else being equal (which it isn't, but that's what people think), not having to part with money is better than having to part with money.