 Antariksh BothaleI can think of a lot of very useful things, and I won't possibly recall them all at the same time, so I will update this list as I do. I would also refrain from using superlatives such "My mom is the best mom in the world!"while they are cute and I can appreciate the sentiment behind them, they do not give a lot of useful information. Personal growthFilled the house with books and cultivated in me a love for reading, which I share with my mother. I was reading books in English, Hindi and Marathi as long as back as I can remember.Tried to give me access to stuff. I grew up very technology literateused computers since I was 7 (this was in the 90s mind you; now kids are anyway born into computers; I am waiting for the first foetal selfie), started learning programming at the age of 9, and in general, spent a lot of time tinkering with stuff.Since both my parents work, I've spent large amounts of time alone at home. To a large extent, they didn't police me around excessively and put unnecessary restrictions. To give you a very 90s example, we almost always had Cable TV at home while many other kids had it only during vacations. To my credit, I was never much of a TV-watcher anyway.Financial MattersWe were comfortable but we were not filthy rich, so they shielded me from any day to day financial woes if any, but made sure I still had the 'global picture'. I think that being subjected on a daily basis to the family's financial issues is pointlessly stressful for kids (who can't do anything to solve them anyway), while completely shielding them from these matters makes them extremely sheltered and they end up with no perspective of where the family stands.By example more than instruction, taught me responsible financial decision making. Before any big purchase, we always spent time researching our options and trying to ensure we were making a reasonable choice. The result is that I rarely make impulse purchasesthere's always a bit of 'due diligence', so to speak.In the same vein, taught me financial triage by example. They didn't mind spending, but they tried to spend it on the right things. They spent on fairly expensive books (which, in today's money, might have costed, say, INR 3000-4000), but would have probably cringed at spending the same money on a single night, eating out.MiscellaneousMaintained a largely peaceful environment at home. I didn't grow up witnessing constant shouting matches. When I discuss this with people whose experience has been otherwise, they tell me that parental conflict was a big source of stress during their childhood. I particularly remember the most glowing example of this strategy. In the March-April period of my 12th grade, when all kids sit for various crucial and decisive competitive examinations, I remember that my mother had declared the house to be an absolutely zero-conflict zone, meaning that no one shouted, bickered or had unnecessary arguments in the house for those 4-5 weeks. Anticipated my growth needs and didn't hesitate in taking decisions towards it. My mom led the initiative to transfer me to a new school (further from home and more expensive) when she realized I wasn't getting enough exposure. My parents are very helpful and hospitable; it's a bit difficult to put into words but would be amply clear to someone who has been at the receiving end of their hospitality. I like to think that at least some of that has rubbed off into me too; I try my best to help people out.Many of the sentences here sound like lines out of a resume. If only the stuff you did as a parent could be written in resumes...P.S. I guess this is also a great time to wish my mom on Mother's Day and thank her for all of the above and for all the rest that I can't even begin to put into words.