 Antariksh BothaleThis is not really a dilemma if you handle it well. You can definitely teach your kid English without having to choose between making her 'lose her roots' or 'grow up to ridicule'.For the first 7-8 years of my life, I was raised by my mother's parents. My grandfather knew English but no one else in the house did. Moreover, I grew up in Madhya Pradesh (a core Hindi state) in a Marathi household. My grandfather is a thoroughly self-made man, and can be counted on to understand the impact of tiny (dis)advantages early in life. Just like you, he recognized the importance of me learning English. Being the only English speaker in the house, he'd often talk to me in English, and encourage me to reply in English, helping me figure out the best way to frame reply. He was my go-to English resource. I also went to a school where the medium of instruction was English. However, that doesn't ensure anything in itself.Kids don't usually like to learn if they know they are being 'made' to learn stuff. He'd employ interesting techniques to ensure that I absorbed things without being consciously aware of them. When I was learning to walk, he'd make me count my footsteps in English as I climbed up the stairs. Mind you, all this happened when I was less than 6 years old, a period particularly facile for language acquisition. By the time I was 7, I could talk fairly comfortably in English for a non-native speaker, and since I grew up in a Hindi / Marathi household, I had native competence in the two languages.During all this, however, I was also reading Hindi (and occasionally Marathi) newspapers and books and comics and what not. When I grew slightly older and started staying with my parents, they subscribed to kid magazines (in India, they'd be stuff like Champak or Balhans) in both Hindi and English. By the time I was 8, I was reading Hindi translations of Mir publication books such as Fun with Maths and Physics. I grew up fluent in all three languages, and due to my exposure to books such as the one I just mentioned, I am luckily comfortable even with technical vocabulary in Hindi. So yes, it is completely possible to raise your kid in a way that she picks up English, but please don't let her grow up in a monolingual environment, thereby wasting the natural advantage that most people growing up in India get. Immerse her in English, Hindi, and other languages too if possible. She gets to learn them 'for free' and she will thank you later! :)My own personal plan is to have my kid grow up exposed to at least 4 languages.