 Antariksh BothaleI think it's great.And frankly, I don't quite get the negative hullabaloo around this at all. Most of the internet seems to have well-deserved appreciation for this move, but I've also read some nasty comments too, which I hope are not representative of the majority.Since the benefits of such a move by FB are self-evident to quite a few people, I'll rather answer key points of criticism that I found on the internet."This is the height of political correctness!"This has really nothing to do with political correctness. The fact is that not all people comfortably identify with the binary buckets that we like to put ourselves in for ease of classification. And I imagine it would be greatly relieving for such people if they are given greater freedom to choose.Plus, it causes no difference whatsoever to the lives of most of us who are lucky enough to have identities that more or less align with social norms. And it makes a positive difference to the lives of the relatively few who to whom it does matter. A friend of mine, for instance, changed their pronoun setting on FB to they from the original he. Did it make any difference to my life? No. Did it make some positive difference to my friend's life? Apparently it did.What exactly are we afraid of? That kids would now be exposed to these fancy-schmancy terms that 'weird people' use to describe each other? Well, perhaps this is an excellent time to have a discussion with kids about the fluidity of sex, sexuality, orientation, identity and about the difficulties involved in navigating a world that finds it too difficult to see any shades other than white and black. If it leads kids to have better understanding and sensitivity about any of these things, and it makes at least a few of them stop bullying that 'girly, sissy kid' in school, we would all be better as a society."We should strive to discourage gender stereotyping completely instead of giving people 50 buckets to stereotype others into"But this isn't about stereotyping either. It is true that there is diversity of form and expression in this domain. It is also true that this should not be grounds for discrimination. The two are rather independent. The solution to the problem of stereotyping isn't to declare that we stop acknowledging variation or diversity. The path to greater acceptance does not include brushing stuff under the carpet."This is just a move by FB to make more targeted advertising possible!"Well, that's certainly plausible. Or even highly probable. But let's look at the horrifying implications of that claima company that makes a very large percentage of its 7 billion dollar revenue out of advertising added a feature that helped increase its advertising revenue.So, yes, even if FB did it primarily to increase their ad-revenues, it still remains a fact that it lets people express themselves more freely. And that's a good thing.