 Antariksh BothaleKinda sorta maybe yes, but like with everything, it's more complicated than that. Of course, it'd be nice if the English spelling system weren't so opaque. It would certainly help if more people could spell English words correctly more easily and learners (both native and non-native speakers) didn't have to waste a lot of time wrapping their head around the idiosyncracies of the English spelling system. After all, most other languages that use the Roman alphabet have a spelling system that's significantly more systematic than that followed by English. However, if your ideal is 'pure phonetic orthography', by which I take to mean that you're referring to a system that accurately and predictably represents in their spelling the exact pronunciation of English words, then you are in for a lot of trouble. First, which pronunciation? Even for languages that are spoken in a small area, you tend to get pronunciation variations across dialects, and across speakers. And that's for languages with a few hundred thousand speakers. Think about English, spoken by hundreds of millions all over the world. First language for some, second language for some others, and a third (or nth) language for the rest. Even within what you consider native speakers, you can expect to get a tremendous amount of variation, and it is tough to identify one canonical form.So, whose English would you spell phonetically? Would you spell pin and pen identically in Southern United States since the two words are homophones in their dialect? Or would caught and cot be spelled differently in Britain but identically in, say, Western United States? If everyone's gonna spell English their way (and they should be allowed to, if the whole point was to spell it purely phonetically), is this less chaotic, or more chaotic, than the status quo?Check out the variation in the caught-cot merger in North America (Source: Wikipedia). Mind you, this is just one particular variation. Furthermore, even if you did choose a dialect, what kind of speech should you accurately represent? A word spoken carefully as an individual utterance can sound very different from the same word spoken in a sentence, and even that can change based on stress and other factors. And finally, as a few others pointed out, it's sometimes worthwhile to maintain 'deep orthography'. Since the words writer and rider are homophones in many US dialects, would you necessarily gain more by expressing the action of writing as write but the person who performs the action as raiduhr (or whatever system is chosen)?These are only some of the issues. Like it or not, at some level, spelling representations serve as abstractions of the underlying phonetic forms. Moreover, they are usually not expected to convey information to a person not familiar with the language. Even in languages with fairly unambiguous spelling systems (Indian languages, I am looking at you), the written form is almost never 'purely phonetic'. The English spelling system should have been more regular. But purely phonetic? Not really.