 As others have pointed out, Blackberry was the first* smartphone. It was the first phone that could access email and provide limited Web functionality, which made it indispensable to businesspeople prior to the advent of the iPhone, which completely changed the way people understood and used smartphones. Today Blackberry is less known in the smartphone space because Apple and Android have carved out vast swaths of its previous marketshare. But as a platform it is still quite strong, particularly in other parts of the world, but also among those of usI use a BB Q10 as my "daily driver"who are interested in security, reliability and communications functionality as its core mission.Here's what I tell people who ask me why I went with Blackberry: my phone is not a lifestyle. I want my phone to be a phone. I do not need a little mobile Web browsing device that can also function as a phone. I do not need a little mobile gaming device that also happens to work as a phone. I don't need it to play music or watch TV shows. I don't need to look up song lyrics or post on Facebook. I have computers for that, and an iPad. What I want is a reliable mobile communications hub, for voice as well as text. Blackberry handles text messaging, as well as its outstanding Blackberry Messenger system, very well. Its ability to manage multiple email accounts is smooth and effortless. I also love having a physical keyboard, and Blackberry makes the best in the business (but also offers products with innovative virtual keyboards too).As Blackberry is designed to appeal to professionals and not 13 year old girls, its OS is functional, clean and no-nonsense. Exactly what I want.I'm aware that no smartphone is 100% safe from government snooping, but I appreciate that Blackberry is a Canadian company and that makes it one step further removed from US backdoor shenanigans. Blackberry is also very much about the security of the information moving through its channels and this has been of primary concern to them from the beginning. I would trust my Blackberry a lot sooner than I'd trust an iPhone or Android device.*Not the first technically, but the first device to combine PDA, email connectivity and telephony using secure encryption, making it the device of choice for enterprise in the early 2000s. I'd venture to say that very few people knew what a "smartphone" was before Blackberry made them commonplace in business.