 (Sorry, Archie, but there was an all-in-one Mac going back further than that.....!)The Macintosh PortableIt's 1990. I'm a freshman in college, and I'm working in a computer lab full of Mac SEs sharing a single LaserWriter II printer. I have to work in the Mac lab because I couldn't afford my owncollege kids with their own computers were still fairly uncommonand laser printers were very expensive, so to get a decent quality print of a document, you had to bring your files to the lab and print them there.So I'm sitting at one of the SEs and doing whatever, and I see a guy come in with a jet black case with an Apple logo on it. Out from this case, right in front of me, the guy pulls out this sleek wedge of a computer like nothing I'd ever seen before. The screen opens on a hinge and it powers up with the startup chime from the Mac II line. I knew two things immediately: I was looking at a very rare and powerful computer, and I had to have one.Be still, my beating heart.About a year later, I was granted my wish. My parents ponied up several thousand dollars for me to buy my own computer, and I'd sold them on the advantages of a portable computer as opposed to one that was too much trouble to move from my dorm room.It was my most prized possession. I could do all the writing I wanted from anywhere I wanted. I could very easily pack up the machine and take it to work, take it home, take it with me when I visited my parents, take it with me on vacation... I loved that machine. "But it was so heavy!" everyone says.Compared to the Powerbook line, yes. It was heavy compared to them. But it also had a magnificent backlit active matrix displaythe best money could buy at the timeand a lot of other things that, to me, made up the difference. And when the Portable was released, there was no Powerbook line. The Portable came years before them. It's not a fair comparison.If you're comparing it to its actual contemporaries, the Portable was fast, expandable (it actually had an expansion slot!), had a better screen, a better keyboard and a better battery. It was a desktop computer that could travel, not a laptop. Laptops in the late 80s and early 90s were barely capable of supplementing a desktop computer. They compromised display, keyboard, internal storage, I/O and many other features in favor of weight and size. The Portable made no such compromises. It was a full-featured all-in-one desktop computer that folded up into a tidy little wedge with a handle, and it was all I needed for many years.The Portable continues to list on most compilations of Apple's most embarrassing missteps, but as an owner of one, I strenuously disagree. It was a beautiful computer with the best technology of its day.