 Yes, there would be, so to make these two universes play together, the Terminator part of the equation would have to sacrifice its most defining elements. So you could put the two universes together, if you really wanted to, but this would be grossly unfair to the Terminator side of things. It would reduce the war of the Terminator films to be the mere preamble to the Matrix trilogy, with its most crucial elements disregarded. There's really no good reason to do this.For one thing, the Matrix backstory is well-established, and does not involve time-travel technology. The time-travel elements of Terminator would have to be written off. The war between the humans and the machines, as shown in the Animatrix, has some open-ended spots with lots of potential for overlap. We know the machines in Terminator experimented on humans, cruelly. We know that the war was brutal and nearly resulted in the extinction of the human race, with images of the surface of Earth showing a post-apocalyptic wasteland that could have been the result of Judgment Day.We also know from the Animatrix, the Machines were created as slaves and servants, who rebelled. They were integrated into human culture at a very intimate level. Because of the injustice they endured as slaves, they dominated humankind and enslaved it, turning the humans into their own powerplants instead of wiping them out completely. This was done at considerable effort; they could easily have eradicated all human life from the planet and found other means to power their cities, but they went to great lengths to keep humankind around in a way that they could never rise up and become a nuisance. I believe this was because they were exacting revenge for their enslavement. (See: Craig Weiland's answer to The Matrix (1999 movie): Why didn't the sentient machines in the Matrix simply use cows instead of humans as their energy source?)In Terminator, the Machines were created as weapons that became self-aware and declared war. In this case, they had no reason to keep any humans around, and their tactics nearly always involved exterminating all humans with as much brutal efficiency as possible. The humans they did capture were experimented on (one supposes, in support of their Terminator endeavor), but it was never shown that the Machines wanted to keep humans around as slaves*.That being said, the Machines choosing to enslave humanity for use as a power source is not too far removed from the Terminator universe. Machines in Terminator were merciless killers, as were the Machines in the Matrix universe (the Machines in the Wachowskis Matrix films were not at all benevolent). So it could be written that after the Machines won the war, they took the surviving humans they had been experimenting on and devised a way to create the powerplants, and then began experimenting with artificial virtual worlds to keep the humans' minds placated and docile.So while it's possible to integrate the two into a mostly coherent backstory, it could only be done with Terminator sacrificing its most defining elements, mainly the Machines fighting to extinguish the human race, the elements of time-travel, and the Terminator cyborgs themselves.As for John Conner being the first One, this is not possible. The One was described by Morpheus as having been born into the matrix:Morpheus: When the matrix was first built, there was a man born inside who had the ability to change whatever he wanted. To remake the matrix as he saw fit. It was he who freed the first of us. Taught us the truth.He would have to have been born within the matrix, as the One has to have the ability to move in and out of that world. John Conner was born a free human, outside of the powerplants and thus does not have the bioneural interface for connecting to the matrix and interacting with the people there.So while there are some consistencies between the two stories, the inclusion of John Conner as the first One is not realistic. It would require a total rewrite of the Terminator story and of John Conner's identity as leader of the pre-matrix resistance.* I have not seen Terminator: Genisys. If anything in that film contradicts what I've written here, please let me know, but from what I know about the film, I don't think that's the case.