 It takes a certain kind of person to be a successful graphic designer, especially one who really enjoys doing it and is willing to make a career out of it. It requires a combination of audacity and humility, of confidence in one's talent and a willingness to cheerfully surrender it to another's taste preferences. And it demands a willingness to create art that many, many people will see, and be unable to claim any credit for it except privately (or, if you're lucky, design awards shows).This isn't the entertainment business, where everyone who worked on the movieeven the caterers who fed themgets their names on the finished product. When you put something out there for the world to see, you don't want the recognition. You want your client (or employer) to get it, and if they do, you've done your job right.I've been a graphic designer for most of my life. Even as a child, I was artistic. (I was fully vaccinated.) When I was ten years old, I saw the movie Tron and was captivated by the visual effects and the idea that someone could be digitized and transported into a whole other world inside the computer. But I also found the ENCOM logo.... compelling, somehow. I drew it on paper, colored it, cut it out and taped it to my dad's car doors. I taped it on our garage door, too. (I was a weird kid, I know.) There was just something neat about a car that wasn't just an ordinary, everyday car... a vehicle that had a company's logo on it was imbued with purpose, or something.(Tron, 1982)It wasn't anything my little 10-year-old brain could express or describe, but it fascinated me. I was too young to know what it was, but I'd become aware of corporate identity for the first time.When I was in college, I started my first graphic design business with a partner (who still operates the business today). Up to then I'd mostly done things like rsums, restaurant menus, t-shirts, some small business advertising, and so forth. However, one of our first big clients was a local McDonald's franchise, and at one point the franchise owners made available to us a thick book that had been put together by Kragie/Newell in Des Moines. It was their McDonald's brand bible. It was the coolest thing this aspiring designer had ever seen: how the various McDonald's logos and marks were meant to work. How ads should be laid out and balanced. What typefaces to use. How colors could be combined. How the characters (like Ronald and the Hamburglar) were meant to be portrayed. I could see the brilliance and the depth of thought that went into McDonald's corporate branding, stuff you just don't even think about, but makes all the difference in the world when it's consistently done right. Before then, I was producing ads the way I just... thought they would look good. Upon studying this book, I started to pay attention to how different corporations presented themselves. I could start teasing out the invisible "rules" that guided how their logos were presented. I wanted not only to create great looking and effective designs and graphics, but I realized that I really wanted to be the guy who created those rules, too.Today I'm the art director for a $1.5b agricultural cooperative in the heartland of the US, and I'm doing everything I ever dreamed of and then some. In 2010, the cooperative rolled out its first major corporate rebranding in 30 years. I got to create the new logo and all its various permutations. I created a standards guide for it, that codifies all those things that keep a brand distinctive and uniform no matter how or where it's used. I designed livery for our fleet trucks, and massive graphics for our 52' van trailers. I designed a new template for our print advertising, which is seen all over the Midwest. I designed our Web site, which gets visitors from all over the world.This is enormously fulfilling to me. When I see my work out there in the world, representing my cooperative and hopefully improving its image and credibility among farmers and the people who support them, I feel uniquely proud. I feel like I'm making the world just a little bit