 I never imagined that I would walk down the aisle to holy matrimony with a programmer. Sure, my parents were programmers and owned a tech startup, but I thought that world just wasn't for me. I was filled with passion and was impulsive and had an adventurous and slightly mischievous streak a mile wide. But more importantly, I hated sci fi, role playing games, Japanese anime, and I have never seen the Star Wars movies (please, dear readers, refrain from downvoting because I have not seen Star Wars). So, either J paid eHarmony quite handsomely to fix the matches, or there was a major bug in their matching engine, because when I received my list of matches there was only one. And that one match was, of course, Mr. J. Maybe it wasn't a fluke after all, because he proposed only a month after our first date and I happily accepted. When you are engaged to be married, your friends and family shower you with lovely and (mostly) useful gifts. Like towels and teapots and trinkets. Hindsight is 20/20, of course, and instead of allowing J to register for that soccer ball thing that you make ice cream in, I should have registered for a primer book on, "Your Life With A Programmer; The Basics," or some such. Because I didn't receive such a primer, I will take this opportunity to share a few bites of programmer dating wisdom.Is that a GPS in your pocket or are you just happy to see me?If you are going to love a programmer, you need to embrace quirks and the unconventional and the plain ol' strange and weird. Not even just embrace, but love. I learned this very early on with J. On our first date J greeted me at the restaurant with an awkward hug and I felt a large bulge in his pocket. That's alright, I thought... Everyone has their, um, moments? I noticed that the giant bulge remained throughout dinner and dessert. This is when I began to feel quite uncomfortable - it was a blind date, after all. I reassured myself that we were in a public place and everything would be fine. When we left the restaurant J pulled a ginormous, mount-on-your-dash-sized GPS unit out of his pocket. First I was relieved, but then I was even more weirded out. Who carries around a GPS in their pocket (this was pre-smart phone)? He explained to me that he thought it would be useful if we wanted to find a coffee shop after dinner. Okay, not weird or creepy, just pragmatic in an unusual way and well, yes, quirky. Things like this happen *a lot* when you love a programmer. When you encounter something analogous to a bulge, don't raise your eyebrows in horror, trust that he has thought things through and has everything under control. But I'm supposed to be the normal one at the party! When you love a programmer you will inevitably attend parties and events that are dominated by nerds and programmers - your sweetie's "people". Maybe for the first time in your life, you will feel like the "weird one" at a social event. Your gorgeous hunk of programmer can then revel in the sweet, sweet, "oh, how the tables have turned" glory. You will find that it is hard for you to join in on the small talk because it isn't small talk at all. Rather, it's in-depth discussion about duck eggs and pet ducks or how to make your own cheese and incredibly, incredibly in-depth discussions about coal. As an outsider, feel free to occasionally chime in with things like "I like cheese." They might then quiz you about about your dairy intake habits. Do you love learning about duck eggs? About coal? About cheese making? About any and all obscure hobbies? Loving a programmer might be right for you.If your programmer is a snappy dresser with great style, he is an impostor.Does your man look like he stepped straight out of the pages of GQ? He might be an NSA plant or he might just have like three great "date outfits" that a friend helped him find, I don't know, but either way it's time to do some snooping. I don't generally endorse any sort of snooping in an intimate relationship, but if you are dating a programmer who dresses well, this is very serious. If your covert op turns up free tees he scored at Linux World and TSR tees and other free logo tees that he won at programming competitions or meetups of his favorite online games, then breathe a sigh of relief and never, ever, ever do that sneaky snooping stuff again (who told you that was okay?). He probably just bought a few special dating outfits to impress you and isn't with the NSA. Look, honey, all these charity event invitations!!Nope, not the gala kind where you get to wear your LBD and heels kind. When you are married to a Silicon Valley programmer, events like your second cousin's wedding in the Midwest can become uncomfortable charity events. It all begins when your grandma or whomever starts bragging to the table that J is like the best computer person, like, ever. I mean like rockets and spaceships and stuff (sorry, J, I think what you do is very interesting, but it's not rockets and spaceships). And, of course, the GOBS of money. Because everyone in SV makes LOADS of money (please note the extremely heavy sarcasm). Protip: It's important to master the "polite smile" so that at events like this you don't let the annoy seep through the polite. Everyone at the table is *very* impressed and mentions that cousin Eddy needs a website and Aunt Doris needs help with using Word and so on and so forth. Protip: It's important to attend weddings with open bars. OMG! This trophy is for me? But I didn't do anything to earn it! But I didn't even prepare an acceptance speech! I'm so embarrassed! No, really, I'm embarrassed. If you are an attractive woman married to a programmer, people will sometimes give you a trophy whether you earned it or not. Like, even if you married your programmer when he had 3k to his name and lived in a seedy apartment. Trophy. To illustrate, I was shopping for a pair of nice heels at a nice department store (which I was paying for out of our joint account, to which we both contribute) and the overly-friendly salesperson asked me, "Are you married? What does your husband do?" They asked me nothing about what I do or my life. I told them that J is a computer guy, to which they responded, "Wow! That must be so nice - the success (wink) - and you get to come and buy shoes!!!" hmmmkaaay... I wore my trophy shoes on our next date to a nice restaurant in SF (we were celebrating an anniversary). J wore a logo tee, naturally. We were showered with a ridiculously embarrassing amount of attention by the manager, the sommelier, and the waiter. I mean, at a certain point it crosses a line from "attentive" to "why don't you just join us at our table". So, if you love a programmer, be prepared to occasionally embrace the trophy. Match his socks correctly and he will bring you flowers. It's true that programmers have their little oddities. J, for example, will not wear socks unless they match exactly perfectly. He says that it makes him feel weird all day long. But, for as many little quirks as he or they may have, they have 10 times more love to give. J shows his love in all sorts of little ways. And he really listens, even when I'm talking on and on about some random Quora answer. He knows how to make me happy when I'm sad and how to make me laugh and why I hate surprises. Programmers are pretty awesome.