 I have always been jealous of creative types. Jealous in the wonder and awe way and jealous in the way that stings a little. Creative people are just so damn cool. They somehow pull off with great je ne sais quoi this unnatural combination of being totally carefree but also very hardworking, and incredibly passionate yet very down-to-earth and centered. A very cool bunch. I am not one of these people. I am sort of the opposite of one of these people. I recently received a wedding invite that instructed me to RSVP with a Haiku. I full-on panicked and wondered how I could be friends with people so callous and cruel. I've never even liked cartoons or fantasy anything. So "creative mode" isn't where I naturally hang out and it takes a little cajoling to get myself there. But, even as a mere mortal non-creative type, there are things I can do to "get there" when I want to create.Have you noticed how a weekend getaway with your beloved can kick your love life up a notch or four? For me, a big part of this is being away from the tedium of everyday life and my real life stresses - even the smallest, most insignificant ones. The dishes piling up in the sink. The dinner or lunches that have to be made. The bills that have to be paid. The pets or children that have to be cared for. The mile long to-do list that hasn't been touched. Out of sight, out of mind is pure bliss sometimes. This bedroom/love life theory applies for me when I want to create something. Except that I don't need to check into a hotel somewhere tropical and no sexy lingerie is required. I just need to get out of my regular environment and away from those small, everyday stresses. I think that there is a thick layer of everyday anxiety between me and my creative potential.Getting outside and exercising also helps me clear this thick, suffocating layer of everyday anxiety that stifles my creative potential. I'm not talking about going crazy and running a marathon or climbing Mt. Kilimanjaro. It's the simple things like getting my hands in the garden dirt or feeling the sun on my back while I walk on a peaceful trail. Or floating in the ocean or throwing the ball for my dog in the park. This is when my mind wanders to those fantastic places where creativity is alive and boundless. Those places that make my husband tremble in fear when I come home and say, "guess what I'm gonna do, honey, isn't this a GREAT IDEA?!!" While I will (probably) never set out to climb Mt. Kilimanjaro, I do pay careful attention to how I'm spending my energy when I want to create. I'm an introvert, but I unfortunately spend a lot of time in denial about my introverted nature. Much like a woman of 50 who dresses like she's 20. When I want to create something, I really focus on being mindful of how much energy the creative process takes and that I can't spend my energy on friends or elsewhere. This is a very key part of my creating process. Some might call this "hermit mode". I will probably always be jealous of the uber-cool creative types who make it all look so easy. But until I can morph into one of these creative superheros, I will continue using my creative process hacks for the not-so-creatively-inclined.