 Gaining a foothold in an established social group can be a really tricky proposition. I have been in your shoes and I know just how lonely and awkward this can feel. You will most likely be "the newcomer" a few times again in your life, so it's probably best to think it through and consider your options. I ran into this situation as a student like you, but also when I started new jobs or joined a yoga group or club. You might find that when you have kids all of the PTA moms and dads have known each other for a million years or that all of the t-ball parents are super tight. While there isn't only one right or correct approach, there are some things that you might want to keep in mind as you decide how you want to ingratiate yourself.Beware coming on too strong.  Not only will this turn your potential new friends off, but it's not fair to you, either. It's ridiculously easy to get swept up in the glamour and magic of the charismatic popular people who have somewhere to go and somewhere to be, but give yourself time to decide if these are people whom you actually like and have things in common with or not. It's possible that these are people that you don't want to eat dinner with or spend a lot of quality time with and would prefer to maintain a more casual, but friendly, relationship. Give yourself a chance to decide before you jump on the bandwagon. Get to know who you want to know. Let's say, for giggles, that there are 30 students in your class. Even if you like all 30 of them (which is rather unlikely - they probably don't even all like each other), chances are that you don't want to be best friends or even close friends with all 30 of them. Giving yourself time to get to know the group and group dynamics a bit before you angle to be included gives you time to get to know who you want to know better. Once you meet and get to know a few people whom you would like to know better, think about asking them to coffee before class. Invite them to grab a coffee before your class or something else casual that doesn't interfere or intrude upon their post-class dinner plans. You don't want to inadvertently ask them to choose between their group plans, doing something with you, or inviting you along to the group event. Placing people in awkward situations is never a good way to win friends. Think long term. Not tonight's dinner. It's really painful to go home by yourself and feel the brutal sting of exclusion when you know that everyone is having a fabulous time at dinner. Is your end goal to form real, lasting friendships or to join in on one dinner? Forming friendships takes time and it's highly likely that if you become friends with a few people in the group that they will include you in the larger group activities. This should not be your goal in befriending a few individuals, of course. The friendships should be the goal in and of themselves. Remember that while it's often important to be a part of the group for political reasons at work or school, it's more important to be friends with people that we truly enjoy being friends with and enrich our lives. When you do join this social group please extend a dinner invite to the next newcomer to your class. I'm sure they will appreciate it.