 It is great to have a real passion for something. Whether it is a passion for a career or a hobby or a weekend job, many people never find a true passion or something that they just love to do. Something that makes them feel incredible. So consider yourself lucky. I suspect that you and your dad share more common ground here than you might think. Your end goal is to be financially independent and rockin' your own career, yes? You might be surprised to discover that this is your father's hope for you as well. Being a strong, powerful, independent woman is important for many reasons - not just because your father doesn't want to support you for the rest of your life. When you are doin' it on your own you have options and choices. The world is your oyster. You get to decide. You get to decide where you want to live, who you want to date, if you want to get married, if you don't want to get married, if you want to have kids, if you want to travel the world -- I could go on, but you get the point. Independence makes your world bigger and gives you more choices. Your dad probably wants this for you - he wants the whole BIG world for you.Start by doing your homework. Interview makeup artists. Talk to them about how they got started, where they went to school, how long it took them to get their ideal job. Talk to them about how much beginning makeup artists make. Talk to them about how hard it is to get a job in your area. Talk to more than one. Talk to as many as you possibly can. If you find out, through your interviews, that a beginning makeup artist makes 15k a year, do the math. If rent is $800/mo, your cell bill is xx/mo, car insurance is xx...gas, school loan repayment, car payment, food, dinners out, work clothes, laundry money, health insurance, etc. Work through a realistic budget. Is this doable for you? Are you willing to live this way to pursue your dream? OR should you consider:Compromising with your father. Go to university. Let him help pay the tuition and your expenses. Perhaps choose to pursue a degree in business with a focus on sales and marketing, which you can later leverage to help your own makeup business. During your summers off from university you can pursue makeup certifications and work as a makeup artist. After graduation, why not try working a 9-5 corporate job to build up some savings and business experience, and do makeup for weddings or somesuch on weekends? Eventually you might build up a big enough clientele/reputation that you can switch to makeup only. You can both pursue your passion and earn a degree. Dads are actually pretty handy, believe it or not.