 Wine country is mostly rural, agriculture country. Wine grapes are a crop, after all. While Napa Valley is a relaxing and picturesque place to unwind with a glass of cab franc, it lacks the urban density that makes jetting around on a bike or public transport super easy and convenient. So long as you plan to have a designated driver, a car will get you everywhere that you need to go.Many of the budget hotels ($250 dollars/night) offered on popular online travel deal sites are not in the town of Napa proper but in adjacent towns like American Canyon. If you want to spend the day exploring the small town of say, St. Helena - visiting tasting rooms, Woodhouse Chocolate, having a meal - it's possible to do this all via slightly inebriated cycling. However, you need to get there first and you need to get back to wherever you are staying. American Canyon to St. Helena is a 45 minute car ride. Same goes for towns like Yountville. Most wineries are rather spread out which makes cycling a poor choice if there are specific wineries that you would like to visit. And don't forget that the terrain is very hilly in places. Don't be surprised if you feel a little car sick winding around the steep roads. Cycling is probably not the ideal main mode of transport choice for the casual tourist, but definitely a fun thing to do for entertainment if you have the time one afternoon.If everyone in your group would like to have a drink or four you might consider a tour. If your group is considering joining a larger tour keep in mind that not all wineries warmly welcome tour buses and their groups. You might find that you have a better experience at wineries if you hire a private driver for your group and keep it small. If you are not warmly welcomed you might not be able to taste as many wines and the tasting room attendant might not spend as much time giving your group special attention or even occasionally a discount. Sometimes it's worth it to pay a little bit more for a better experience.The wine train is nice, but not as a mode of transportation. It's the equivalent of taking a dinner cruise on a boat. You don't generally take a dinner cruise to get from point A to point B, you take a dinner cruise for the boat ride, the scenery, and the meal. And, sometimes, because it's a work obligation. The wine train works pretty much the same way. Scenery, food, and train ride (the meal is pretty good, btw).A car is your wine country best bet. Take turns being designated driver and mix it up now and then with bike rentals, a tour/hired driver, and the wine train.