 Planning a wedding can be ridiculously stressful. By the time that I said "I do" most of my friends had already gotten married, so I had a chance to witness just how crazy wedding day details can become. A few times brides lost it over minutia like our nail polish colors matching just so. This isn't because they were petty or even inconsiderate people (quite the opposite), it's because the enormous stress got to them in those moments and they lost perspective. It's easy to let the stress get to you and to lose perspective when you're planning a large, life-changing event. It happens to the best of us, and it's also why I took the easy way out and had a teeny, tiny wedding with no attendants.My friendships have definitely changed over time. They have changed with marriages or babies or school or moves or jobs. I suspect that they will continue to change. This isn't a bad thing, I don't think, but it does take some adjusting. And change is hard for me. Adjusting to this change was most difficult for me in my mid- to late-20's. All of my friends were getting married and starting families and their new families were now the main focus of their time and energy and attention as opposed to their friendships and social lives. It was a big switch. I wouldn't throw the baby out with the bathwater though. Just because priorities shift, doesn't mean that she no longer values your friendship. It is important to be honest with yourself about your expectations for your bridesmaids. Do you expect them to be really involved with the day-to-day wedding prep and planning? To come to all of your dress fittings and help with putting together all of the wedding favors? To shop for matching shoes and hair accessories and nail polish? If so, you might both end up unhappy and bitter...and not friends. Think about your expectations and whether or not she can realistically fulfill them.You are both going through major, life-changing events. If asking her to be a bridesmaid isn't the best fit right now because you sense that it would be too much of a time commitment, maybe you could ask her to do a reading at the wedding or to participate in some other way. You might also consider asking her how you can best support her right now. If going out isn't easy for her, why not ask if you could swing by with take-out and a movie? Ask her what's easiest and best for her.