 Mothers are among the toughest in the lot of family and friends to choose gifts for. Likely because we desire to give our mothers something great that they will love - and that's absolutely no easy task. When I first start to think about a gift for my mother or a mother, I ponder a few preliminary questions: Does she need things? Does she need things for her home or for her wardrobe? Does she not need anything for her home/wardrobe/gardening? How well do I know her? How well do I know her taste? How much do I have budgeted for this gift? The answers to these questions should create some neat, nice, natural categories:Needs things/Know her well:Cashmere sweater and pretty scarfA Kindle filled with some of her favorite books plus some new authors to try.A "tv/movie night" basket - for ex, fill a movie theater popcorn tub with a Chromecast, some of her favorite movies, snacks, and two tickets to the local theater.A "breakfast in bed" basket - for ex, fill a decorative basket that she can reuse in her home with something she needs, lets say a waffle maker, and fancy waffle mixes, fun little syrups, and any other fun/fancy breakfast in bed type items.If you know that she takes yoga classes, a nice yoga outfit with a certificate for one free class tucked into the top. Take the class with her, if possible!Doesn't need things/Know her well:When your mother doesn't need another blue sweater or another pan or more towels or more whatever, it's nice to spend the day with her doing things that she loves. Treat your mother to a mother/daughter spa day at a great spa. Get massages and mani/pedis and then go out for a relaxing lunch and a glass of wine.If your mother is the outdoorsy sort, plan a great hike and a fabulous picnic with all of her favorite foods. Or take her kayaking or sail-boating.If your mother is into art, plan a day gallery hopping at all the best galleries. Finish the evening with dinner at her favorite place. If you live a state or two away, and it's feasible, surprise her and fly in for the weekend. Show up at her door with a bouquet of her favorite flowers.Needs things/Don't know her well (a mother-in-law, perhaps)I don't generally love or endorse sending a gift certificate, but this is one circumstance in which is might be your best option. Alternatively, you could scour sites like RedEnvelope for inspiration and to get your gift-giving juices flowing. Doesn't need things/Don't know her wellSend flowers.Take her out to a nice dinner or make her a nice dinner.Send a pretty piece of locally made jewelry. Send a really nice bottle of wine.Send a beautiful basket of fancy bath products (if that's her "thing").