 Meeting people and making new friends is hard for most everyone. I know that it probably seems like new friendships are challenging only for us "chosen few" who were truly blessed with an introverted nature -- reserved and shy or serious at times -- but that really isn't the case. It's fairly universally tough and intimidating to put yourself out there - feeling exposed and vulnerable. The "putting yourself out there" part is similar in many ways to dating. There is nothing wrong with you, lovely girl, making new friends just isn't a cake walk.The good news, and there is good news, is that there are a lot of ways to branch out and meet new friends and new people! In high school many people tend to think, in a rather insular way, that all of their friends must attend their high school or be a member of this clique or that clique. This kind of thinking isn't "branching out" thinking, it's, well, ... the opposite of that. And it's not a great way to think when you want to broaden your horizons and expand your circle. Are all of your parent's friends their coworkers?? Of course not! That seems silly, right? Branching out of the walls of your high school has several perks, including the ever-coveted college app shiny star. Let's check it out:One great way to make friends is to volunteer doing something that you love and are passionate about. Let's say, for giggles, that you are passionate about animals. Volunteer at a horse rescue or an animal shelter. You will be doing something that you love, donating your time to a great cause, and meeting like-minded potential friends. Even if they don't become friends, you will still have a great time doing something for a great cause, AND you get that shiny star for your college app. Win-win-win. I volunteered at a blood bank when I was in high school and I loved it because the people were fantastic and I made a few friends all while doing something that I thought was important. Plus, there was a super adorable tech that I had a pretty big crush on (understatement). Protip: Leave the stuff about the adorable tech off of your college app should you desire to be admitted.You said that you are interested in music. Have you ever thought about taking group lessons? Guitar, drums, whatever it is that you are into? This is another great way to meet new people who share an interest and you will get better at something that you can pursue your entire life while you're at it. Alternatively, if you belong to a church, perhaps think about joining the choir or ask if they need someone who plays the instrument you play. While we are on the subject, if you do belong to a church, consider participating in youth group activities. You say that you like reading and learning. Is there a book club in your area that you could join? This is a great way to have fun, meet new people, and learn something too. I really encourage you to look into this. Even if many of the members of the book club are older than you are -- you might find a "mentor" which is really important. Mentors are important as you are thinking about colleges and careers. Also consider attending readings at local bookstores by famous authors. You should be able to find a calendar of events online. If you would like to meet more people at your school, consider trying out for a play! I have given you just a few ideas. There are, of course, far too many for me to list here without boring you. It's absolutely wonderful to have a wide variety of friends as you travel through life and change and grow. Good luck to you! 