 Ah, gossip. We love to hate it...or is it just love? A 2011 NY Times article, "The Gossip Machine, Churning Out Cash," estimates that the celeb gossip industry tops out at more than 3 billion revenue each year. Pretty shocking, right? Or is it not surprising at all? People are voyeurs. People are bored, jealous, insecure, seeking approval. People are all kinds of things. So why am I talking about celebrity gossip when you are asking about your personal life? To illustrate how insidious and deeply entrenched gossip has become in our society. As a society, we collectively upvote gossip more than 3 billion times a year. Gossip has many times more followers than D'Angelo and Bodnick combined. Where does this leave us? We can be relatively certain that people will gossip about us throughout our lives (vicious or otherwise) and it is prudent to tailor our coping strategies accordingly.When I first learned about this thing we call gossip -- the first time I heard some nasty untruths about me floating around in the ether -- I was quite young. I felt indignant. I felt violated. I felt angry. I wanted justice - for everyone to know that those wretched things were not true and part of me wanted everyone to know who was responsible for spreading those terrible untruths. Anger bubbled and festered inside of me and the resentment that I felt stained many months of my life. Ironically, part of the way that I wanted to "fight" the gossip was by spreading even MORE gossip. After all, I didn't really know who started the rumors. A bit of an insanity circle.Flash forward and many years and lots of gossip have passed by between that first gossip emotional wreck/disaster and now. I've heard some super curious things about myself over the years. Everything from why I didn't attend such and such event to accusations of things so outrageous it's funny to mundane everyday "front porch" gossip that's far from true. I don't get angry any more or feel indignant. I don't feel resentful or want to bring anyone to whatever sort of crazy justice I wanted a lifetime ago. Why? A few reasons. The main reason stems from my general lack of caring. I don't have enough emotional energy to spend time on things like what people are saying about me. Because the truth is that it doesn't really matter. And don't underestimate people. People are generally wise to gossip and can see through it, even if they have fun while "in the moment" sharing a juicy bit or two with their friends. So, as long as I live my life in the way that I see fit and in a way that I feel good about, people will eventually just ignore the clutter being fed to them by the hens. Here on Quora, sharp users will warn you not to engage with trolls or "not to feed the trolls." This is very analogous with gossip mongers. Consider them trolls and don't engage or feed them. If you have ever made this mistake you understand why. No one comes out a winner. Everybody looks bad. Everybody loses. Protip: When you do see someone who you think is gossiping about you, there is no need to be rude. A warm smile and simple hello (then move on, of course, no need to have a lunch date) will serve you much better in the long run than an icy look or cold shoulder.