 I was 8 years old when I first visited the orthodontist. Either my mother truly didn't know or she just didn't have the heart to tell me, that I would be seeing a whole lot of the man over the next 10 years. I remember sitting in his office that day, staring down at my well-worn Keds and then up at all of his diplomas, as he explained to my mother that my case was, "very interesting." That is orthodontist code for, "You're going to wear a hideous, torturous contraption in your ugly mouth FOOOREEEEVER." I imagined an evil cackle after this, of course.Like acne or bad hair or painfully awkward moments with the opposite sex, braces are a rite of passage. Braces are the prepubescent equivalent of putting in your time doing grunt work and earning your stripes. Most people, however, can get away with putting in only one or two years in braces. I was given an unusually punitive 10-year sentence. When you have braces you join an extremely large sorority or fraternity of people who understand the painfully awkward initiation that you are going through and can empathize. These are the same people who will look back at your photos with you later and smile with you. When you have braces you learn that so-called "treats" like candy or cookies can become horror-filled minefields of embarrassment rivaled only by an adolescent period mishap. More than once I bravely flirted with my crush-du-jour only to later realize that my Oreo dessert never made it to my stomach and was caught in my braces like a rat in a trap. So long, dignity. It's a good thing that you wave buh-bye to your dignity early on in your braces saga, because when you have braces you learn that your parents care more about their $200 investment in your retainer than your dignity. There is absolutely no dignified or non-gross way to take out your retainer to eat lunch with your cooler-than-you (as they always are) friends. Removing a drool covered piece of plastic and metal from your piehole is just always gross. And it's even grosser and less dignified when you have to go digging for it in a dumpster after you throw it away. Which you inevitably will. It WILL happen. And your parents will make you dig for it. And it will probably be taco day or lasagna day or sloppy joe day.Not everything about having braces was bad, though. If I had been born with beautiful teeth (okay, or even just decent teeth) I wouldn't have gotten to miss school for all of those orthodontist appointments which was a ritual that I secretly loved. My mother would take me out for a strawberry milkshake after my appointments at a little cafe, which was a rare treat and more time out of school. I have never met anyone who dislikes having straight teeth or complains that they wish they didn't have straight teeth. Even in spite of the spontaneously snapping rubber bands, awkward kisses, slobbery, lost retainers, and bad pictures, straight teeth always win. I do know people who have many regrets about refusing to have braces. And the memories that were once brutally embarrassing and made me turn red in the face really do become less embarrassing with time and take on more of a fond, coming-of-age tone that makes me smile my very straight smile.