 Is the need for students who are competent in science, technology, engineering, and math a fad or trend that will come to an end? Is "S.T.E.M." a bubble that will pop like a Macy's parade float a la Wall Street? Will it all blow over like this newfangled interweb thing? It's much more likely that the U.S. will continue to ramp up their STEM efforts significantly over the next 50 years. Why? Because in spite of the fact that Silicon Valley is a booming metropolis and attracts phenomenal talent from all over the world, the United States is failing pretty miserably when it comes to math and science education. The NPR article that I have linked below details pretty nicely just how poorly students in the US are doing so I will spare you the bleak statistics.Why will the US ramp up efforts to fix the broken STEM education system? Because jobs. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), goods-producing industries like construction, manufacturing, and mining will lose many thousands of jobs between years 2002 and 2022. During those same years, healthcare and business service industries will gain many thousands of jobs. Using healthcare as an example, think about how STEM skills directly apply to every aspect of the industry. The doctors and nurses, for starters, are a gimme. But think about the technology that allows for single-incision laparoscopic gallbladder removal. Think about robot assisted surgery. Think about your electronic medical records and even think about how those simple IV drips work. Think about how you can swallow a radioactive tracer and doctors can watch it on a screen as it works its way through your body. Think about artificial knees and hips. Think about how your scan results can be read by a doctor in a different state and you can have the results minutes later. Think about the technology that insurance companies employ. Think about how you can take a pill and your migraine headache magically disappears - poof! And these are just a few teeny tiny examples from one industry.The push for better STEM education won't quit until we quit demanding bridges and streets that are safe, houses that are well designed, cars that are energy efficient and park themselves, medicines that are safe and effective, leisure flights to space -- the list goes on and on....and on. It's actually pretty simple. A fad is fad because people get sick of being injured by their slap bracelet or looking silly at Zumba. People haven't shown signs yet of tiring of fast, reliable internet or better healthcare or safer bridges. The US needs kids who can do math and science. Right now, meh... So they will keep trying until they figure out the equation. U.S. Students Slide In Global Ranking On Math, Reading, Science