 I never imagined that I would walk down the aisle to holy matrimony with a programmer. Sure, my parents were programmers and owned a tech startup, but I thought that world just wasn't for me. I was filled with passion and was impulsive and had an adventurous and slightly mischievous streak a mile wide. But more importantly, I hated sci fi, role playing games, Japanese anime, and I have never seen the Star Wars movies (please, dear readers, refrain from downvoting because I have not seen Star Wars). So, either J paid eHarmony quite handsomely to fix the matches, or there was a major bug in their matching engine, because when I received my list of matches there was only one. And that one match was, of course, Mr. J. Maybe it wasn't a fluke after all, because he proposed only a month after our first date and I happily accepted. When you are engaged to be married, your friends and family shower you with lovely and (mostly) useful gifts. Like towels and teapots and trinkets. Hindsight is 20/20, of course, and instead of allowing J to register for that soccer ball thing that you make ice cream in, I should have registered for a primer book on, "Your Life With A Programmer; The Basics," or some such. Because I didn't receive such a primer, I will take this opportunity to share a few bites of programmer dating wisdom.Is that a GPS in your pocket or are you just happy to see me?If you are going to love a programmer, you need to embrace quirks and the unconventional and the plain ol' strange and weird. Not even just embrace, but love. I learned this very early on with J. On our first date J greeted me at the restaurant with an awkward hug and I felt a large bulge in his pocket. That's alright, I thought... Everyone has their, um, moments? I noticed that the giant bulge remained throughout dinner and dessert. This is when I began to feel quite uncomfortable - it was a blind date, after all. I reassured myself that we were in a public place and everything would be fine. When we left the restaurant J pulled a ginormous, mount-on-your-dash-sized GPS unit out of his pocket. First I was relieved, but then I was even more weirded out. Who carries around a GPS in their pocket (this was pre-smart phone)? He explained to me that he thought it would be useful if we wanted to find a coffee shop after dinner. Okay, not weird or creepy, just pragmatic in an unusual way and well, yes, quirky. Things like this happen *a lot* when you love a programmer. When you encounter something analogous to a bulge, don't raise your eyebrows in horror, trust that he has thought things through and has everything under control. But I'm supposed to be the normal one at the party! When you love a programmer you will inevitably attend parties and events that are dominated by nerds and programmers - your sweetie's "people". Maybe for the first time in your life, you will feel like the "weird one" at a social event. Your gorgeous hunk of programmer can then revel in the sweet, sweet, "oh, how the tables have turned" glory. You will find that it is hard for you to join in on the small talk because it isn't small talk at all. Rather, it's in-depth discussion about duck eggs and pet ducks or how to make your own cheese and incredibly, incredibly in-depth discussions about coal. As an outsider, feel free to occasionally chime in with things like "I like cheese." They might then quiz you about about your dairy intake habits. Do you love learning about duck eggs? About coal? About cheese making? About any and all obscure hobbies? Loving a programmer might be right for you.If your programmer is a snappy dresser with great style, he is an impostor.Does