 We love to love nostalgia and to fondly recall our childhood school days. No worries, no stress, not a care in the world, we say. Nothing but kittens and neighborhood pals and warm fuzzies. But there are things that nostalgia overlooks. A few of them:Sleep: Most teenagers are wired to stay up later and sleep in later than the average adult. This means that when the school bell rings at 7am sharp, students are already operating on a sleep deficit. Chronic sleep deprivation brings with it a host of troubles. Sleep deprivation interferes with almost all aspects of health and development, including mental health, relationships, and academic performance. Losing out on sleep alone could color a student's outlook on school. Autonomy: When was the last time you had to ask for permission to use the restroom? When you have a horrible boss do you have the choice to leave if you find a different job? Students have shockingly little autonomy, yet crave autonomy just as much as you or I do. Personal freedom and choices - even if they are false choices - make us feel better about ourselves. "Darn Kids!!": Do you remember sitting in those uncomfortable little wooden chairs? Recall the dismal offerings in the cafeteria? Wouldn't it have been fantastic if schools offered the same ergonomic work stations and fantastic break rooms that corporations build to lure and retain the best workers? Until most k-12 school have either a serious infusion of cash or a major incentive to build nap pods and bring in world-class chefs for their students, I suspect uncomfortable chairs and cardboard pizza Tuesdays it will be. And I suspect students will go on disliking this.Growing Pains: School is an awkward time for most kids, from the band geek to the cheerleader. So while you're sleep-deprived, have very little control over your own life, and navigating an uncomfortable school environment, you are also trying to figure out who you are and where you fit in to the absurd, hormonally-charged mess that is the social scene. Also, how to deal with the zits on your face.It's great to wax nostalgic, but there are a lot of really good reasons that kids don't like being students.