 Relationships with parents are difficult. Especially when we feel that we have contrasting ideologies, perspectives, or goals. And especially when we are living under the same roof. Most parents will always want to put in their two cents and exert their influence, but it gets easier to deal with this as you gain independence over time. Maybe sometimes in your life you will welcome a little parental "love" and sometimes you will nod along and grin at brunch but later ignore their advice. But, back to your question, what should you do now? As hard as it is (and, trust me, I know this is hard), try and keep your eye on the bigger picture. You say that it is not possible for you to be truly happy at this private school. Is it possible for you to be truly happy if there is strife in your home? Is it possible for you to be happy if your parents always trust you less because they feel that you made the wrong choice? Why is it not possible for you to be happy at private school? Is it a choice between happy or not happy or could you find ways to be happy? Take the time to carefully think through all of the angles of this decision. Are there really only two choices? Would it be possible to enroll in the private school on a one or two year trial basis? Would it be possible to maintain some of the aspects of your life that you enjoy so much about public school and still attend private school? Think outside the box and be creative. Try not to get caught up thinking that public school is "good" and private school is "bad".When making this decision you might also want to think about your long term goals. Remember that these are not your parents goals, they are your goals. Where do you want to go to college and what do you want to do after college? Which school will help you achieve your goals and reach your dreams? If you don't know, do some research. You could even ask here on Quora. Sometimes we have to work hard to create our own happiness in the short term for the sake of our long term goals.