 I did not start wearing makeup until I entered college world. Well, aside from a visit or two to the Clinique counter with my mom in high school when they slapped some strangely green-ish taupe shadow and brown liner on my lids. So, yeah, I was a little clueless (understatement). And, like you, I wanted to look nice for dates and more formal events and parties. I wanted to feel like a glamorous 20-something person when I went out at night. You have several options for bulking up your makeup prowess. 1. Makeup lesson from a professional makeup artist.  For me, this was by far the greatest help and laid a fantastic foundation of makeup mastery. While not inexpensive (a few hundred dollars, depending on your area), you will get a lot of education for your money. Depending on the artist, your lesson might include, but is not limited to: They will help you shop for the best products for you and your budget, as they are not restricted to selecting products from only one brand. You will learn how to select the best, most flattering shades for your skin tone. The artist will teach you how to play up your best features for day/night.You will learn how to properly apply primers, foundations, and blushes. The artist will delve into countering and highlighting.The artist will help you select proper tools and discuss how to clean and care for them. The artist will cover any special requests you have, such as a "10 minute face". Be prepared to take notes.2. MediaOnce you have mastered the basics in your aforementioned lesson, subscribe to Allure magazine or another magazine that focuses on beauty and makeup. This will help you keep up with color trends and new little tips and techniques. You will also discover great new products hitting the market. If you are looking for a very specific "how-to", check in with YouTube. For example, "How to Apply False Lashes". I don't find the more general makeup tutorials on YouTube to be super helpful. 3. Friend + SephoraDo you have a friend who always looks amazing? Consider spending a fun afternoon with her in the biggest Sephora near you. Experiment with new looks together and have a great time. While you are at the store you can ask her what products and tricks she uses. Try them on. But, remember, because everyone's face shape, eye shape, lip shape (and so on and so forth) are different - her products might not look the same on you. This is why it's a good idea to test drive them during your fun Sephora afternoon. 4. And, Finally, the Most Important Advice Get your eyebrows professionally waxed and even tinted if needed. If your eyebrows don't look good, your makeup will not look good. It's one of those cruel truths of makeup.