 I was 7 years old the first time that I heard the phrase "old soul". I was confused about what it meant then and, admittedly, I'm still a little confused. My bighearted Midwestern mother, who loves any excuse for a get-together or a potluck, convinced me that I would love a big sleepover party for my birthday. I knew better, of course, but I got swept up in the magic and excitement of the matching My Little Pony paper plates and pink streamers and the anticipation of cake and presents dancing in my head. When party day finally came, my My Little Pony dreams disintegrated into my worst nightmare of 15 little girls running quickly and wildly around my house, shrieking in high-pitched tones, and playing schoolyard teasing games.My mom was right, sort of. My friends were loving the birthday party. Their joy was abundantly obvious and barely containable. I was the only one not enjoying the party. I slunk upstairs to my bedroom and plopped down on my bunk with despair and that's where my mom and I had the old soul conversation while inertia kept everything going downstairs. I let out a heavy, exasperated sigh and listened to her through my almost-tears. She knew that I was social and loved having fun and being with friends, but that fun to me was a great conversation, or game, or interesting movie - a different kind of "fun" than my peers enjoyed at this age. I sniffled as she explained to me that I am an "old soul" which she said means that I have a richer understanding of the world and greater maturity than many of my peers do. That I am wise beyond my years. While I understood intellectually what my mother was telling me, it didn't quite fit with what I was feeling, and so I was more confused than comforted. I felt lonely. Existentially lonely. I didn't feel wise or mature or like I understood anything. I felt like everyone was playing a game of musical chairs and I was the one who was always left without a chair. The one who didn't belong. As I have traveled through life I have been accused of being an old soul several more times (by people other than a mother desperate to soothe her daughter's tears). I still have trouble - more than 25 years later - reconciling the feeling of existential loneliness with this positive construct of being an "old soul". An old soul who has more wisdom and maturity and vision. Are they two sides of the same coin?