 Words of wisdom from the wisest persons I know- My grandma and grandpa (maternal and paternal), mom, dad and the little of from my 14 years old brother:1. Go with the flow! Adjust according to circumstances!2. Keep learning. There is no age limit.3. Discipline is the highly underrated.4. Be HONEST no matter what, atleast to your loved ones. They expect it from you. You owe it to them.5. Keep smiling! Make others smile. And NEVER EVER HURT SOMEONE.6. Be understanding, loving and respectful towards a man. And even MORE towards women (my maternal grandpa said this). Never ever hurt a lady! Never ever!7. In married life:  Trust your partner wholeheartedly. But choose carefully before selecting if he is worth you.We are Indians, once committed... its a journey for life. 8. School and work life: Dedication and discipline is essential. Failure is sure and essential too. Keep learning if you want to survive and excel. When you succeed be humble and share! Share whatever you've got.9. Spiritual life:  Surrender to God. He WILL TAKE CARE OF YOU. He will give you what is best for you. Ask him what you want he will hear you.10. Words from my little brother:  Why take tension didi? Don't be sad. We should always be happy. When he wants me to hug him, love him he comes and asks for it. So simple! Don't we just forget 'asking' as we grow up?He enjoys what he does! (Except studying of course :P)He once asked me, "Why do you get angry?!" I didn't have an answer... have been controlling my anger ever since.He is happy with little things in life! He doesnt take stress! The principle may blow her temper... he'll get upset for a while and back to being calm. His logic is simple: Can I help it? No- then don't worry.Can I help it? Yes. Do I want to help it? (Work on it) No- then don't worry.Do I want to help it? Yes- fine I'll do it. Why worry.He makes me feel like being a child again.He makes me realise the value of having someone to trust. He trusts me so much with all his crushes, hormone changing age, knows that if he gets into trouble I'm there. These about it for now. Will add if I remember more.