 Thanks for A2A. Okay. That's indeed a lot of baggage.I'll suggest what I personally think might help.1. Go to an open air place, nobody is there or nobody knows you. Cry! If it's hard, remember anything that'll make you cry! Cry your heart out!2. Meet a kid. Believe me when I say this... kids are the best stress busters and teachers of how to live! Give him a chocolate and a coin. See which one will excite him more... chocolate!It's the simple things in life which matter the most.3. Open your palm. And accept the reality. Accept "yes, I'm not well. Not good looking. Not financially well. And all these is as of now."Tell yourself.. I have certain goals, I will try my best to reach it. I will achieve some, some I won't. That's okay.4. About your date, ask yourself if you Want to make it work out with her. If yes, continue. If no, save yourself and herself of the pain and break off now. Mind you... love comes rarely! Only a lucky few find it, rarer have it.5. Take a day at a time.You want money... work hard to achieve it.You Want something...if it's in your control, work for it. If not leave it to god, or let it be.Remember... its the simplest things in life which matter the most. If you don't accept yourself, how do you expect others to?A smile is magical... be it anyone's. A hug is magical.A good morning, good night from loved one is magical.Saying, hearing "I love you" is magical. A hand to hold, a shoulder to cry, care when someone says "Don't worry. I'm here. I wouldn't ever let you go" is magical.A baby's smile is magical.Magic lies within you. The power to create magic lies within you!I personally believe in spreading love, smiles and laughter... and I'm sure doing that gets back many fold in return. Works with me. Will work with you too.P.S- I understand the value of money. So don't take me a happy fool.I have my days of sadness... if fact as I'm writing this I have issues of my own, but I'm sure it'll get solved fine.And lastly very important... money is important, very important BUT it's the little things in life which matter the most!