 Dear Anonymous, I'm extremely sorry. I wish I could hug you. I'm sorry to say this but as of now and for the details you gave when she has clearly stated that you move on. Do it. Move on. Cry, cry your guts out. Move on. My personal suggestion. You may take it or leave it, I don't know her nor you. It's extremely tough to say anything. It's your life, your decision.I follow this , "Never be where you're not wanted, never.Never be with who doesn't value or want you.Kick the person out of your life who treats you like now-needed-tomorrow not needed. "It's better being depressed for while than be treated less than what you deserve.You may tell her you wI'll move on. Cut the one month. 1. Cut all ties. No stalking. No talking. She wanted to move on. She can manage. You need to manage yourself. If she cries, tell her she needs to be on either side of the bank not in the river. If she can't decide, well then she needs to suffer alone and not make you suffer with her.2. Move on by focusing on yourself. Be busy like never before. Make a time table and be disciplined! This works like magic.3. Be with your family and friends. Tell your friends not to mention her in front of you, not because you hate her but because you're trying to move on. (I did that for a friend. Even when she was talking about the guy. I diverted. She loved it as she knew she needed it.)4. Exercise! Even if you don't feel like. Get that hot body out. Heard of "happy hormones"?5. Watch movies but not romantic ones. Do whatever you like but nothing which remindes you of her.6. Don't go into vices like drinking, one night stands. Be stronger and do the right thing.(Not that it's wrong but here the cause is wrong).7. Don't hate her. She was honest to you. Appreciate that. Don't need to love her either. While moving on just drag your mind out whenever it goes thinking about her by doing something else.8. Meet new people.even if it's shopping counter one or two sentences. Hopefully will help a lot. 9. See the people less fortunate than you. Do something for them. Happiness is contagious! It'll attack you too ;)You have people who love you. Love and live for them. Don't cry over someone who didn't want you. The biggest myth is "cannot live without him/her" .  It may be tough for a while but it's your choice to crumble to pieces or come out as a survivor.Be a survivor. You will find someone who values and loves you. Maybe she might come back. But cross that bridge when you get there. Being with someone who is fickle minded about wanting you or not is NOT something I can bear. I do appreciate her a LOT for telling you honestly!It's time to love yourself more. You need yourself to love you. You deserve it. Smile. Be a survivor. Believe me... you'll laugh tomorrow! God bless.