 Tatiana EstvezI work in the UK and Ive had to deal with some challenging working environments over the years. There was the boys clubI was a secretary and the only woman in a firm of consulting engineers and for some reason they decided that I, a secretary with zero experience, could replace the roles of a senior secretary and a junior secretary that had been there before me. Most of the time the guys were very friendly with me, in the way guys are when they are trying to hit on a woman. I didnt think too much of it though until we had a 16 year old boy working as intern over the summer. The first few days he was super polite, but within a few weeks, he was emulating the way he saw engineers treat me. I remember one afternoon, he hadnt yet taken the post to the post office (one of the few jobs he had to do). I went up to him and he was leaning back on his chair and had his feet up on the desk and wasnt inclined to take them down just because I was there. I asked him if he was going to take the mail to the post, he made some dismissive comment and the other engineers laughed. I went to get the post for him and by this time he had stood up and was still laughing, he stopped laughing though when I threw the entire bag of mail at him. The investment bankers  yes that is rhyming slang I remember on my first day of working with an investment bank, I was told that if a banker ever wanted to shout and scream abuse at me that I should just shut up and take it. That was an interesting way to start. That kind of set the tone of working in investment banks and yes I was shouted and screamed at a lot. I remember one evening, it must have been gone midnight and it was up to me to tell someone that their requested deadline wasnt going to be met (I worked on the presentations team). They just stood there and started to scream at me. People were watching but not saying anything. I was very upset and very angry, but it was clear that there was going to be no reasoning with him. I just turned around and walked out and was reprimanded for not being professional enough and just standing there to take the abuse. The firm where I actually thrived Initially my work (design/creative DTP) was focused on a fairly small department. This department liked to leave all their work for Friday afternoon, I would literally have no work Monday  Wednesday, then start to get it on Thursday, and by Friday I would be asked to do the work of 5 people, with the 5pm deadline so everyone could go to the pub. If I couldnt do the work  you know because I had like 4 other deadlines for that hour, theyd actually be super polite, but then they wouldnt give me any other work, even if I was quiet  it felt like I was being punished. Eventually I got the message, you cannot say no in this company. I had been given the remit to increase the amount of work we did this was to be done by not just working for this small department but the whole segment. Im excellent at networking and within a short space of time I managed not to just increase to the whole segment, but the whole company, unfortunately to my detriment. I was supposed to work 9am to 5pm, but I started at 8am and most nights I was there until 9-10pm, if I left at 7pm Id always get someone pleased for me that I managed to leave early. It was several years before anyone told me I should have been expensing my dinner and taking a taxi home, just like everyone else did. This went on for a long period of time, I kept telling my boss that I couldn't sustain the long hours and I was having to turn a lot of work away and she just kept stressing that once I prove that we had enough work she would increase our resources. I remember one day I had several deadlines due for that day, and someone came to me to push for one more piece of work. I reviewed their work compared to the work of the others and as it was not client facing for that day, so I decided it that it would have to wait. They went straight to my boss, who insisted it got done. I got it done, and 5 minutes after getting it done, I fainted and had to be sent home in cab. Luckily someone advocated on my behalf and we finally got a replacement for the part-time worker we had lost the previous year.Although I increased our chargeable work by a significant amount and changing us from a cost centre to a profit centre, there was no credit given to me, and all of this was dismissed as me being a social butterfly who had the consultants eating from the palms of my hands. I can only assume I would have gotten the promotion if I managed to increase our chargeable work whilst maintaining an antagonistic relationship with my internal clients. Despite all this I did eventually do fairly well and I even got to work a year abroad. Unfortunately at this time I also had to move flat in England and I had some issues with my expense receipts for my phone bills. I explained this issue to the Project Director and was told that this wasnt a problem, I could submit my expenses in the new year. In the new year when I submitted my expenses I was told hard luck I could no longer submit them and that was nearly 1,000 lost. My boss at the time was sacked for unrelated issues and there was no way of recouping this loss. A few years later I finally got the promotion but in a different role. It meant taking a lead in some areas and having to speak up in meetings. My suggestions would frequently be dismissed as not useful until 5 minutes later in the meeting when someone else would coincidently have the exact same thought as me and it instantly became the best idea ever. I asked my line manager what she thought was happening and how I could improve how I communicated. Her response Did all the other men in the meeting happen to be men?. Well yes indeed they were and I was then told to get used to it. Strange as it may seem the examples for this last company are just more numerous because I actually liked this company the best and stayed there the longest. There were definitely good aspects to working for them, but this is the worst of it.