 Tatiana EstvezThere are so many acronyms in the bid process and so many of them seem interchangeable, half the time I'm not convinced whether the procurement teams themselves knows which one they should be using or what they should be asking. However, yes there technically there can be a difference. Bid Requests, Invitation to Bid (ITB), Invitation to Tender (ITT)This is usually asked for when there is a more defined project and the company knows (or frequently think they know) quite clearly what product or services they want to purchase. They will usually be a lot clearer about the scope of work and the deliverables required. Example: We invite you to bid to be the supplier for an employee engagement survey which will be for 6,000 of our 10,000 employees in 20 countries, in 18 languages. 80% of the surveys will be online but 20% or our employees will need access to a paper version. Request for Proposal (RFP) This is slightly different in the presentation. Here a problem or need and their requirement will be defined in the RFP and it is up to the supplier to make a proposal on how they fulfil this requirement. There is often a lot more vagueness on what the scope might be. Example: We would like to measure our employee engagement levels. We have have 10,000 employees in 30 countries, but we would like to do this in phases. 20% of our employees do not have access to a computer and will need to be provided with an alternative option.The Difference to the ClientAs you can see the criteria for the first is much more specific, whereas in the second it is more open. The proposal could be exactly the same on the other hand they may offer another option to the paper version of the survey (a mobile version for example), they may also pick up on the 'phases' and make suggestions for smaller cheaper surveys, or they may have a completely different idea that doesn't involve traditional surveys. The Difference to the Vendor/SupplierTo the company making the proposal there should be less difference. If you're asked to bid for a specific thing, then yes you should always bid for that specific thing. However if you have a better solution, then that shouldn't stop you from trying to weave that into your proposal just because they haven't asked for alternatives. If you have an opportunity to discuss with the client upfront though, do this. If this is coming from a big company, the chances are you're also working via a procurement team and procurement teams frequently have a generic process that covers everything from finding the best company to supply their toilet paper to the people they're going to choose as their RemCo executive compensation advisors. Don't stop yourself presenting your best solution, just because the procurement team have given their document the wrong name.