 Tatiana EstvezBlack cab and minicabs have completely different rules and it is important to understand these when it comes to your personal safety. Black cabsBlack cabs are licensed to pick people up from the street. To get a black cab license a driver has to study for this and this can take 3 years or so. It is colloquially called 'The Knowledge' and this is something that theyre proud to say they have.I've taken hundreds of black cab journeys on my own over the years, and I've never felt unsafe. I'll be honest I've had a one or two Black Cab drivers try to 'pick me up', but never in a way that I felt threatened for my safety.It is also possible to book a black cab, either by phoning or they even have apps now. I havent had great luck with booking them, theyre either there or not.Licensed minicabsThese are regular cars and you can only get one of these by booking them, either via phone, an app or online. To become a licensed driver they do have to pass a test, but nothing like to the degree of The Knowledge.The range of quality of minicabs is huge, but they are generally considered safe and I'm never unusually concerned about personal safety when using one.The most important thing to note, that you cannot stop a licensed minicab in the street. Treat with suspicion anyone who claims to be licensed that tries to offer you a trip without you booking ahead. They would lose their license for this, and incur the wrath of the black cab unions, it is not worth it for them.If you ever wish to check whether the minicab company or driver you're using is license you can check it on this website here: Licence Checker Unlicensed minicabsWhat is considered very unsafe are the minicabs that try to pick up customers in the street. They tend to congregate outside bars, restaurants and nightclubs in central London. These cabs are not licensed. They target drunk women getting out of the club and they'll pretty much tell you any price to get you in the cab. Sometimes they stick to this price, but sometimes halfway through your journey they'll claim some misunderstanding over the location 'ah this not Finchley, this is North Finchley, that's much further away, 30 quid extra'. You're then in the position do you get out there, in the middle of nowhere, they frequently get these revelations in the middle of the less salubrious areas, or do you just pay twice the price?Of course if all the worst that happens is that you lose an extra 30, that's a pretty good result. There have been assaults and rapes on women who have gotten in unlicensed minicabs.It is worth noting that people often assume that black cabs are prohibitively expensive. They are definitely more expensive that booked minicabs, however they often turn out cheaper than these unlicensed cabs, both literally and figuratively.