 Tatiana EstvezThis is inline with how Dove have been advertising for a long time. They have these feel good ads that try and send the message that we as women should be challenging perceptions of ourselves and liberating ourselves from our insecurities. Were not really ugly or average, it is society telling us that were not attractive as we are and actually if we just accept ourselves well see that were really beautiful. Thats our choice. Sounds good eh? What is the real message of this ad though? Look at the women theyve chosen, sure I have no doubt some of these women have insecurities about themselves, but lack of make-up and dowdy clothes and the coyly apprehensive expressions on these womens faces, do not hide that these women are all above average in looks. So the real statement being made here is if you are already quite good looking you should own it and embrace it. What about women that are less conventionally beautiful, 200lbs overweight with a heart of gold or a woman with chronic acne who looks after the elderly, why arent they being shown embracing their beauty, why not show them being dragged through the beautiful door by their mums and friends  giggle  arent I cute because Im so humble and self-deprecating and chose the average door despite looking like a model. All it is, is a less glamorous beauty, which makes it seem more of an achievable kind of beauty.When it comes to really changing how women value themselves, I don't believe these ads make a blind bit of difference. This is not how you gain true confidence about your looks, you can't get this from a bottle of body lotion or being forced to carry a label for your looks. You get it when you stop caring about whether or not youre beautiful and get it when you actually just like how you look, flaws and all. You get it when you stick two fingers up at the Beautiful door and realise that it doesnt really matter which of those doors you go through that the funny and intelligent doors are the ones that have true meaning in life, the cake not the icing. But true body confidence doesnt a beauty cosmetics market make. It is important that when watching any beauty product ad that the more insecure you are, the more money they make. Dont get me wrong, I dont think the Dove marketing team sat around in a team meeting and said to themselves how can we screw with womens insecurities more than theyve already been screwed with. No one was thinking that much, but theyve built a brand on the concept of real beauty, real beauty meaning that compared to the average model, theyre a bit shorter, a bit bigger, a few years older, oh and they dont Photoshop women until theyre unrecognisable, but theyre not going to any real risks here, were not going to see any real challenges to what we already perceive as beautiful. The real aim of these campaigns, is just make beauty seem more attainable to the average woman. They're actually making people associate their product with realistic expectations of what it can achieve on a beauty level and at the same time make make women feel like they're embracing their 'real beauty'. It is win win for them and in all honestly from a marketing point of view, I think theyve done this really well. I just dont think we should be giving them any plaudits for revolutionising the world into the concept of real beauty because the 'real' difference between the women in the picture (from the ad) and the woman below is a lot of make-up and quite a bit of Photoshop. 