 Tatiana EstvezJeremy Corbyn is currently causing controversy with suggestions put forward that there should be women only train carriages so that they are protected by harassment, with many people feeling that this is taking us back 25 years. This must feel like a real own goal for something that had such good intentions. It was part of a list of suggestions to combat the issue of street harassment for women in the UK and it important issue that needs to be tackled. However he has shown a real lack of understanding in womens issues to think that segregation is progress in the fight against harassment. He says It is simply unacceptable that many women and girls adapt their daily lives in order to avoid being harassed on the street, public transport and in other public places from the park to the supermarket. Yet doesnt seem to understand that this is still adapting our daily lives to avoid harassment, regardless of the effort it takes.The problem is protecting women in this way seems intuitively to make sense, just like telling them not to go out late at night and to wear demure clothing. It however reinforces the belief that women are the ones that need to change to ensure theyre not attacked, as this is not something that can be avoided. That we are a vulnerable group that need special attention, the focus and responsibility is off men taking control of their actions. I also have concerns that this is something that will be used against women  what happens when you get on the wrong carriage or just choose not to be segregated  will a guy think you must be up for a little attention? This idea was suggested by women to Corbyn, which I dont doubt, because at a very superficial level it seems to offer an immediate solution to a big problem. Also as women, when we think of our personal safety we have to protect ourselves in this way. We dont have the luxury of saying hey Im going to do whatever I want to do, regardless of the long-term consequences, because the short-term consequences are too significant to disregard. This is going to be a bit of a blow to Corbyn, however I doubt this idea will be taken forward and the outcry seems to have effectively crushed this idea. In fairness this was only one of several ideas and he has said he would be consulting with women. I think it is important though that he consults with experts who understand the effects and consequences of any kind of campaign that has the intent of protecting women and the focus should be on the perpetrators of the harassment.