 Tatiana EstvezThe advice here is conventional wisdom that we'll often hear, particularly when starting out in our career. I don't want to say that it is bad per se, but just that there are times when not following it, did work well for me. Dont lie on your CV or interviewThis is the main one were told right. Never lie, youll be caught out and bad things will happen to you and even if youve worked for the company for 20 years, should they find a single mistake in your CV you can say goodbye to your job. Well it is probably true there is no point lying about the big stuff, but there is one area that I have told some little fibs on and that is when it comes to what software I know how to use. To be fair Ive never intentionally and knowing lied about this, but when I was a lot younger and confidently ignorant of the world I used to forget that I didnt actually know everything. The thing is recruiters and HR people need to have as much quantifiable criteria as possible. For them being able to tick the list of software skills needed on their candidate list is a great thing to go back to a head of department with. Yet in reality software is changing all the time, the true skill needed is someone who can pick new software quickly, there have been several occasions when Ive been asked if knew software x when going for graphics/DTP roles. People immediately look nervous if you say you dont know it, yet I knew I had the true skill needed, which is that I can learn these things on the job very very quickly, soooooo I may have gone ahead on just a few occasions and said that I had used the software, when technically I hadn't. No one ever knew or suspected, although I would later own up to colleagues  normally just to reassure them when they were nervous about not knowing a very specific skill that someone had decided was critical.Dont change jobs too much early onThe one piece of advice I was given over and over when I was young, was dont change jobs. You need to stay in your first job at least two to three years. I didnt. If I didnt like a job Id leave it and when youre young the chances are youre not going to like a lot of the jobs you go for. There was a point though that I started to get very nervous about how my CV looked. Being told to keep it to one page was a joke with the amount of entries I had. Then I applied for a graphics job with a Management Consultancy, they looked at my CV and looked at me and said so youve had a lot jobs. Indeed I had. They then proceeded to tell me how all that variety must mean Im a very flexible and adaptable person and was seen as a real asset in their company. It was true as well and from that point I realised that despite the conventional wisdom my job changing could be seen as a real positive. I dont know if they still give the advice of staying with your first job for two years, but ignore it if they do. Dont make wavesWho wants someone causing trouble for their department, right? Certainly no one in any of the blue chip companies Ive ever worked with. I was working for one company when we merged with another. I was really shocked by their extremely long-winded way of representing data they produced for infographics, it was a combination of copying and pasting screen shots and retyping data. Although they created beautiful outputs, the error rate was appalling. My boss said not to worry about them and to not mention my ideas, just do it their way. I was genuinely shocked that she was encouraging this extremely inefficient and costly method because she just didn't want to have an awkward conversation. It was a source of great frustration that I had to leave them to it. One day I heard about one of their projects for their most demanding client. They told me what they had committed to, some very fancy data heavy infographics, that were completely different from the information they usually represented. As it stood they would have had to input the data in a different order for every chart. They had much less time than usual, yet to do things their way they needed to double the time needed and double their resources. Neither of which was possible. My boss had long since left so I felt free to tell them they were all crazy people and there was no possible way they could go on as they thought and I was going to create some tools for them to save them - I wish I could say I used much better words than that, but they were probably worse. I really needed to get them to understand they couldn't do things their way any more and they needed to understand that immediately. Luckily one of the team members knew enough about excel to realise I made sense and we collaborated. Long story short, I forced them to change and do things my way and our department came in on time, the data we gave was the most accurate ever and best of all I saved them 11,000. And of course that's what counts in the end.