 Tatiana EstvezThe key sign that someone is trying to manipulate you is that they are making their emotional state dependent on you and the things you do. To some extent this is natural, if someone you care for does something nice for you, this makes you feel good if they do something you dislike, you will feel bad, but when people pass on the responsibility of those feelings to actions that they have no control of , thats when you know youre being manipulated. Recognising the telltale signs can be difficult due to the emotional components that are so strong. Here are things to watch for: Becoming specialTo start with the practiced manipulator will want to build the bond with you. A normal friendship will not be enough, they are likely to try and make you feel as if they consider you someone special. That you have made a difference to them. Many people will instinctively reject someone who comes on too strong early on in a relationship but if you have self esteem issues you may find yourself more vulnerable to someone like this. They may talk about really admiring you or elevating something youve done. People like this can give you a real ego boost. Ive never met someone that understands me the way you do, youre so insightful.Not taking responsibilityManipulators will frequently talk about life events of things that were done or happened to them. Bad things happen to everyone and many times theyre not our fault and were not responsible, but it is actually a healthy attitude to try and take responsibility in order to try and maintain some control. A manipulator is happy to relinquish this control.Taking exaggerated responsibilityA manipulator will go from not taking responsibility to taking an exaggerated responsibility that is so clearly and obviously not true. Example:Manipulator: I worked so hard this year but my boss passed me over for promotion for someone with less experience, this is so unfairFriend: Do you think it was because youve been coming in late a lot in the last few months.' Manipulator: I guess it must be, Im obviously really terrible at my job, because Im late all the time, but I was looking after my sick mother and I guess that makes me a really bad person. This is all deflecting. No one thinks they are terrible at their job or a terrible person because the look after their sick mother, but it is circumventing the issue that perhaps just coming in on time is important for some roles and denying responsibility that this is something that they can actually control. They want you to feel sorry for them. This leads to the next point.Pity. All their sad stories and terrible things that happen to them will invoke pity and they're OK with that. Most people have a big issue with people feeling pity for them. It hurts their pride and even when they tell you about something awful that happened to them, you won't feel pity you'll admire them for getting through it. Not the manipulator, this feeling is key to getting you to do what you want them to do, because even when you recognise that they're emotionally manipulating you, you may allow them to do this because they're just so pitiful.Disappointment because youve let them downManipulators will at some point transfer their disappointment of others into disappointment of you. Youve let them down. You didnt do what they wanted to you to do even though it was really important to them. 'It was so important to me that you turned up that day, because I really needed your support because my ex was there. I thought I would be more important than your hair appointment' This reproach will come after the event and not as a request for assistance beforehand. Trying to reason with them that you didn't know will not work as that would be not recognising how 'special' your friendship is.Guilt. Yours. After a while you will find that even when this person isnt manipulating you, you just feel this general sense of guilt. That youre just not living up to this persons expectations of you. You'll just feel like a generally bad person. This feeling is going to play on any self-esteem issues - which you will have if you're in this situation in the first place. It is worth noting that most people do some of the above things at some point, it isn't necessarily their attempt to manipulate you, most of the time they are actually your mum and they cant help themselves. For the rest, they may just be feeling insecure and concerned that you don't care. This doesn't mean you should worry. It is only if you find they're doing several of these things repeatedly and in conjunction with each other, that you're probably dealing with a manipulator. The most important thing to recognise though, is that someone cant become an emotional manipulator if no one allows themselves to be manipulated. Every con needs its mark.