 Tatiana EstvezBritish office etiquette is a hotbed of hidden traps and unspoken rules. You should consider any work you do secondary to your ability to navigate through this world and here I only lightly touch on the some of the etiquette you need to know. Tea  other hot beverages are available, allegedly In offices all over the UK people have decided rather than quickly go to the kitchen and get your hot drink for yourself when you need it  taking a couple of minutes, it would be much more efficient to get the orders for everyone in your designated area and get tea for between 2 and 10 people at a time. I say tea, but everyones order will be different, sugar, sweetener, semi-skimmed milk, skimmed milk, soya milk, maybe a few sneaky coffees for those continentals or American influenced people, definitely a few herbal teas and not to mention all the cheeky please fill up my water bottles'. Tea rounds often seem to catch people by surprise: 'Oooh tea, should I? Ooh I dont know, Ive had 12 already today  ooh go on then, if you insist  you devil ... hahaha  Ill get the biscuits out'. These people are liars, theyve been desperate for a tea for half an hour but they didn't have the time to do a tea round for 10 people. Theyve even wanted to go to the loo, but were worried theyd get missed. Some people hate this ritual, particularly if theyre not big drinkers and want to get out of the round system. These people are considered odd and eccentric but are tolerated, as long as they make sure they exclude themselves completely, you cant never offer to make drinks but ever accept the offer of others. In fact this last group is probably the most heinous of all people in the office. You will be considered lower than low; your colleagues will be full of contempt for you. On the plus side, youll never ever know this and youll still get offers to make you drinks. This will go on 30 or 40 years until retirement when youll find that everyone has signed your card Best Wishes for your Future Endeavours.Birthdays and other eventsIt is your birthday; you have to buy cakes. You dont like cake? Tough, youre buying cakes. Doughnuts are also acceptable, you can add biscuits as a supplement, but they shouldnt be the main feature. Good news, you dont have to spend a lot of money on cakes, but you do have to appear to be generous. Going to Sainsbury's and buying lots of teacakes and doughnuts will be viewed just as positively as buying a deluxe Opera cake from Pauls; as long as they are plentiful. You should make sure there are enough for everyone and a few stray people who coincidentally happen to be walking by at strategic and opportune times. If at the end of the day there isn't enough cake to feed another half a dozen people, you probably didn't buy enough.On a fairly regular basis a brown envelope will appear on your desk with a list of names some crossed out some not. Inside you will see a card either wishing someone a good birthday, happy retirement, congrats on leaving their job. You may or may not know the intended receiver. You should not say in a loud voice I dont know this person so I wont bother signing it. Tough, trust me when your special day comes around you will know how successful you are as a human-being by the amount of signatures on that card, so start earning good faith now. Signing the card can be tricky but the basics are: best of luck is good if you dont know them, best wishes on your future endeavours works when you hate them. If you actually like this person very much you should write something pretty insulting in the card to express familiarity. For example if a woman is going on maternity leave, you should feign surprise and make a pointed remark about her putting on weight. What woman wouldnt be moved to tears at that heart-warming comment? Before passing that envelope to the next person, give it a little jiggle. Does it make a noise? Then get your wallet out and put some money in. Please no complaints about how you always have to donate to these things. Boo-bloody-hoo! Everyone is in the same boat, your financial pressures should not be held out as better or worse than anyone elses financial pressures. Inappropriate office banterNon-British people can often be surprised about how Britain, a country that seems fairly polite and civil on the outside, is actually a hot bed of inappropriate office banter. People making saucy jokes to each other, commenting on various parts of each others anatomy, offering to run away with each other for illicit affairs. Many a hapless outsider has enjoyed this banter so much they have joined in, to suddenly find chairs spun around and having HR walk past their desk at regular intervals for the rest of the week asking how are they. Banter between colleagues is a very difficult thing to get right and not only that, a lot of the people you think are getting it right are getting it wrong but are tolerated for other reasons. Maybe theyve been in the company many years and have earned some latitude. You wont be penalised for not joining in, but you will have problems if you get it wrong. Just smile noncommittally when this is going on and dont be pulled in.Sick leaveSick leave in the UK is generous and most companies will pay you as normal and up to quite a significant amount of time. Some people really abuse this, therefore any sickness is viewed with suspicion. Here are some of the more important rules:Being sick on a Monday is an absolute no-no as people will assume youre still hungover from the weekend. The exception here is if youre actually still hungover from the weekend, then you might as well just take the time off.Being sick on a Friday is an absolute no-no as people will assume youre hungover from the Thursday drinks and/or you just want a long weekend. The exception here is if youre hungover from the Thursday drinks and/or just fancy a long weekend. Then it clearly makes sense for you to take the time off.Being actually sick with coughing and mucus should be something you should get to stay home with, but no, first you must come into the office so that you can be sure that everyone knows youre coughing and there is mucus involved. A couple of days of this should ensure you have people complaining that you should go home and not spread your germs. These will be the very same people who last week were coughing and imposing their mucus on you. Once 2 or 3 people have said this, you can go to your line manager and explain that as much as you want to finish those spreadsheets, youre annoying a lot of people by your very presence and maybe you should just stay home for a few days.Please believe me when I say that these are just the highlights of our etiquette system. The thing that makes us special is not the amount of rules, I'm sure this is the same in most countries, but you'll pretty much never know or be told if you get these rules wrong. You could be happily sitting at your desk thinking you're doing well and actually your cards have been marked because of an unfortunate encounter over a biscuit. If in doubt, avoid doing anything that could be considered controversial or different, even if everyone else is being controversial and different. Coming soon  do not do any of these things before youve read them: Working with people in support rolesThe hierarchy of the officePerformance reviews  giving and receivingOvertimeWorking from homeAfter work drinks