 Adam D'AngeloMake sure Quora lasts forever. We will keep most of this money in the bank as insurance. This insurance protects us against a potential macroeconomic downturn, and will allow us to focus on building the best possible product to share and grow the worlds knowledge, and continue running the service no matter what happens. This is important because one of our goals is to be an independent company for the long term and not be acquired.Continue improving Quora as a product. We have a lot in the pipeline, but two small highlights include tools for people to find their own content, and some improvements to notifications. We are also focused on keeping Quora as the highest quality place on the internet for answers to questions as we grow in scale - this means making sure people can find all content thats relevant to them, automatically surfacing more of the great content, and fighting spam, minimizing other low quality content, and stopping question vandalism. These are challenging problems and we will continue to build the best possible development team to tackle them.Expand Quora into other languages. Most of the world does not speak English, so in order to fulfill our mission to share and grow the worlds knowledge, we need to internationalize. Our first priority is keeping English high quality as it scales up, and we have our hands full at the moment with that, so this will not happen for a bit. But it is certainly something we will use these funds for.Scale up technically, and fund our infrastructure. Our usage is growing a lot faster than our headcount is, so as we project forward we expect that a lot of this money will go to infrastructure costs. This will mostly be EC2 bills, assuming Amazon doesnt let Google undercut them.In the long term, becoming cash flow positive will be important to ensuring that Quora lasts forever, so that we are not dependent on external investors. If youre curious about how we plan to make money, see this answer. These new funds would be enough to get us to break even if we wanted them to, but we may raise more in the future if we want to invest in development more heavily. For now, we are fortunate to be able to put 100% of our resources toward sharing and growing the worlds knowledge.