 Adam D'AngeloIn the past this was a norm and most companies did it because they were following the norm. Ted Wang's answer to Why do most startups force employees to exercise their vested ISO options within 90 days if they leave rather than the option to convert to NSOs? is a good summary. However, at this point I believe the norm has been broken and so this is now a more interesting question.First, why I think the norm has been broken: Quora switched to 10 year exercise for new grants in April 2014 (the ISOs convert to NSOs if the employee leaves). It has been great to see Asana, Pinterest, and most recently Coinbase follow our lead in the last year. There has also been quite a bit of publicity around all of these. For example, Sam Altman mentioned favoring this approach in his article Employee Equity a year ago. All of these have been enough to establish that this is a real option for startups to consider and they do not need to just default into the 90 day norm.Before getting into the reasons why most companies don't do it, I think it is worth going through the reasons why we did it:The common case in a successful startup is for an employee to get a 4-year option grant at the beginning of their tenure. Most of the time, they don't have the money to be able to afford to exercise the options, and even if they do, it's often not a great financial decision because they are already so highly exposed to the company financially. Or the company doesn't allow early exercise. So the common case is that they don't exercise their options.Then, over the course of the four years, the company gets more successful, raises more money at a higher valuation, and the FMV goes up, potentially way up. Now, in order to exercise, the employee needs to pay the exercise price plus they owe AMT on the spread between the new FMV and the strike price. This is usually unaffordable so if they want to leave the company (or they are fired - keep in mind it could be involuntary) they have 90 days to find someone to borrow the money from.There are all kinds of complicated solutions to get the money - the employee could sell some of the stock if it's liquid and use it to fund the exercise price and the AMT, they could get a loan collateralized by the stock, or they could borrow from their family if they have the money. However, the stock usually isn't liquid, and the employee may not be connected enough to get a loan. At a minimum the situation causes a huge amount of stress and wasted time, and in many cases the employee ends up forfeiting all or most of the grant.You can make an argument that the employee "should have known" what they were getting into when they joined a startup, that they should have consulted an accountant when they were deciding to join the company, but in practice almost no one does this and the vast majority of employees enter startups unaware that they may not be able to leave without losing most of their options. This is the real ethical issue to me: if everyone knew exactly what they were getting into when they joined the startup, then a policy where you can't leave without exercising would be justifiable.There is also an argument that "stock is only supposed to be a reward for people who stick with the company until the IPO". In my opinion, this isn't realistic in the current world where companies are staying private for longer and longer. But I think it's a valid choice to make as long as employees are fully aware of how things work when they are joining the company.So given all this, why haven't more startups switched to a 10 year exercise period? Here are my theories, though I would be interested to hear from other companies directly:1. Many companies think it's good for them to make it very costly for an employee to leave, in order to increase employee retention. (Note that this is true in a world where employees don't understand the system going in, but if they do, it may be bad for the company because people won't join in the first place. There are also questions about whether it's actually good for the company to have people around who want to leave but are only staying because they are trapped.)2. It is good for the company when an employee leaves without exercising, because they get to recover the shares and have less dilution.3. It is complicated to change the system once it exists. There is a little truth to this but having gone through it ourselves at Quora, I can say it's pretty minor compared to the benefits.Also, the above are all "short-term rational" reasons from the perspective of the company, assuming the company cares only about itself. Personally, I take that view that it is a good thing to value employees, and making tradeoffs that have large benefits to employees but small costs to the company are worthwhile, even if they are net negative for the company in terms of the formal analysis. This is why we went with a 10 year period (the max legally allowed) and no restrictions on who it applies to, for all our new grants. It is only right for people to be able to keep their compensation after they leave a company.