 Robert FrostBecause real life doesnt always respect our plans.Launch windows can be brief. Launching at the desired time is the primary objective, so the timeline is developed around that time. We need to build pad into the timeline to deal with contingencies. We use GO/NO-GO matrices throughout the sequence to determine if everyone is still GO with continuing toward launch or whether malfunctions in their system has made them NO-GO. In these matrices, it will often indicate that a particular malfunction or combination of malfunctions put us in an area in-between GO and NO-GO. Those scenarios will put us into a delay while we troubleshoot or perform workarounds.We use both "L" and "T". L is the actual amount of time until liftoff. T is the amount of time in the schedule until liftoff. That means that T doesnt include holds, while L does.For example, lets pretend we have a rocket that we want to launch at 08:00. We have four tasks that need to be accomplished prior to that launch.L-6:00:00 / T-4:00:00 Initial system testsL-5:00:00 / T-3:00:00 HOLDL-4:00:00 / T-3:00:00 FuelingL-3:00:00 / T-2:00:00 HOLDL-2:00:00 / T-2:00:00 Crew onboardL-1:00:00 / T-1:00:00 Final system testsL-0:00:00 / T-0:00:00 Liftoff!Our timeline is based upon us, nominally, having four hours of work. The countdown starts at T-4 hours, which because we want to include some holds, will occur at L-6 hours.We have included two holds. The first hold is between the initial system tests and the fueling. If the tests all go well and the vehicle appears healthy, they will take one hour. But what if one of the tests indicates a problem with the vehicle? We will want some time to look into the problem. Wed prefer not to start fueling immediately, because our cryogenic fuels will have to be drained from the vehicle if the launch is canceled. Wed prefer to take some time to look into the problem and determine if it will affect the launch, before we start fueling.The second hold is between the fueling and getting the crew onboard. Something may go wrong during fueling and we dont want to be loading the crew during that process. We also dont want to spend the effort of loading the crew into the rocket if a fueling problem is going to result in an abort of the timeline.Real launches are far, far more complex. We don't want to over inflate the schedule, but we also want to be able to adapt to contingencies ranging from a computer reboot to some idiot in a Cessna entering the restricted area around the pad. So, we build in holds and we choose those holds very carefully to be points where everything is very stable and can safely pause and the pauses will least impact the most critical phases.