 Robert FrostWhere to begin. There are five untrue statements in the question details and a significant discontinuity between the question and the details. Faith is a search for meaning and a confidence that there is meaning. A belief is a less abstract definition of that faith - an idea of what that meaning is. Religion is a community of people whose faith has led them to a set of common beliefs and the documentation, principles, dogma, and codes that those of the community associate with their faith.It is not true that a person of an Abrahamic faith is beholden to all that their religion has encoded. It is quite rare that all individuals of a faith would see and interpret everything the exact same way. That's why there are so many sects. A Catholic and a Protestant differ not in their faith and little in their belief. They differ in their interpretation. A Baptist and a Methodist differ in their interpretation. One is not more or less Christian than the other.Catholics and some sects of Protestants may read the same holy book and yet see the greater universe very differently. The Catholic Church has no problems with evolution or the Big Bang theory. Hell (sorry, inappropriate word choice), the Big Bang theory was originated by a Belgian Catholic priest named Georges Lemaitre. And yet, some Protestant sects maintain the universe is around six thousand years old.Science is not a belief system. Well, it isn't supposed to be, but an hour or two on Quora will show some people try to turn it into one. Science is nothing more than a process that when applied to the search for knowledge provides more consistent results than other processes. The scientific method is simple:Observe somethingThink about it and develop a hypothesis about the observationUse the hypothesis to make predictionsTest those predictions by conducting experiments and/or further observationsModify the hypothesis based on the results.Repeat the cycle until you're pretty confident your hypothesis is good.It's a good process to do the work needed to generate the body of knowledge we call science. It doesn't require any specific beliefs, just a respect for the process. Doing science is a job. One doesn't have to take their job home with them. There are good doctors that smoke.The scientific method can't be used to answer every question. People are still going to want answers for those questions and will seek other methods for those questions. Faith often falls into that realm.A person can use their faith to develop all kinds of belief systems. They can join religions to commune with people of like beliefs. That doesn't stop them from going to work and applying the scientific process.There are scores of examples of brilliant scientists that are Jewish, Christian, and Muslim. Being of an Abrahamic faith has nothing to do with their ability to do their job.There are, of course, devotees of extremist sects that do reject the type of thinking used in the scientific method. There are extremist sects that reject the results of science. There is a reason the adjective extremist is used for those people. They are not the norm.