 Robert FrostThe Martian is my new second favorite space film, after Apollo 13. The film manages to capture both the irreverence and the respect of the book and tells just as exciting a tale.The story is straight forward. An astronaut is left behind on Mars, presumed dead. He must find a way to survive and hope for rescue. The book worked so well because the astronaut could see the humor even in this horrific experience. Matt Damon does a brilliant job of conveying that humor while physically showing us, as third person observers, what the book struggled to describe from a first person narrator - the toil the ordeal takes on the protagonist.When I first heard that Ridley Scott was to direct the film, I thought "Yay! The guy that did Alien!" But that was immediately followed by "Oh crap, the guy that did Blade Runner." (Ridley and character narration didn't do so well, there). The Martian absolutely depends on successful narration. And the film very much succeeds, there. Damon wonderfully channels his smartass genius from Good Will Hunting.As well as I felt the book did at developing the protagonist, I didn't feel it did so well with the supporting characters. The film greatly improves upon their depiction, largely due to a stellar supporting cast that includes Jessica Chastain, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Jeff Daniels, Sean Bean, Kristen Wiig, and Michael Pena. The only flat performances came from Sebastian Stan (who, in fairness wasn't given much to do) and Kate Mara (who consistently makes me think of Kristen Stewart). The supporting characters are given better dialog than in the book. I really disliked the voices given to the NASA Mission Control characters, in the book. They sounded nothing like real mission operations people.The film did a very nice job of illustrating the differences in culture between JPL and JSC (the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California and the Johnson Space Center in Houston). And oh boy does the JSC of 2035 look different than the JSC of 2015. Moving the VAB (Vehicle Assembly Building) from the Cape to Houston must have been a challenge! I would love it if our classrooms looked like the one in the movie epilogue.The special effects team did a very convincing job of making Wadi Rum, Jordan look like Mars. Mars is so beautiful, in the film, I was ready to sign up to go, even if my crew left me there. The special effects team were also tasked with depicting the MacGuffin of the film - the storm. The storm looks cool, but isn't any more believable in the film than in the book. But, it is needed for the story to be told, and therefore needs suspension of disbelief. Also like the book, the film - once past the MacGuffin - is pleasingly pragmatic, until the final climax, where it gets a bit ludicrous. It's ludicrous, but ludicrous with sufficient heart that I forgive and fully accept what I am watching.Heart is the film's strength. I found myself getting quite emotional at key scenes in the film, such as when Mark learns NASA hasn't told his crew he survived and when the crew is told. Those scenes felt authentic and representative of my experiences with crew members and management.The film is set twenty years in the future. I don't find it realistic that the technical challenges of going to and staying on Mars will have been so smoothly solved within twenty years, but it doesn't matter. The story is science fiction. The audience is supposed to accept the challenges have been addressed and enjoy the story. The film does a good job of extrapolating today's technology forward to this future tale - it just feels like either more than twenty years, or a world where NASA never lost its Apollo level funding. It had sufficient verisimilitude that every NASA person I've spoken to about the film has loved it.Accepting the fiction doesn't mean we can't have fun with it, though. I saw the film in a theater that was predominantly filled with NASA people. There were chuckles, sighs, and audible eye-rolling at several points. Everything is so much easier and faster in movies than in life.It is the messages of the film (and its source material) that really make the film special, for me. We NASA people are dreamers. We may be pragmatic engineers, but we believe people can do great things. We believe when tested, people can show their best. We believe the future is a place of wonder. Like the early summer film Tomorrowland, The Martian feeds those dreams.