 Robert FrostOrion (referred to inside NASA as the MPCV (Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle)), is being built by Lockheed Martin, for NASA. In 2006, they beat out Northrop Grumman/Boeing for the contract.Orion is being designed for missions far beyond low Earth orbit. It includes closed loop life support, enhanced waste management, ultra flex solar arrays designed to be used even while the vehicle is under acceleration, and rechargeable batteries that together will allow three week missions, with no additional habitation modules, and up to 210 days with additional habitation modules. It is the most advanced manned vehicle ever built, with composite structures and computer systems that move data at up to 1000 times the rate of current systems, while remaining radiation hardened. Because its long distance missions (beyond the moon, to near Earth asteroids, and potentially Mars) involve significantly higher velocities (more than 7000 mph faster) than those needed for LEO, the heat shield is designed to handle significantly greater speeds and temperatures than Soyuz. Some have referred to it as Apollo on steroids. Let's compare the two:STRUCTUREOrion is built largely from an aluminum/lithium alloy, lighter than the aluminum available at the time of Apollo.Since the thermal protection system and other exterior hardware is removable from the pressure vessel, the pressure vessel is easily reusable. NASA hopes to reuse the pressure vessels for up to 10 missions.CONSTRUCTIONOrion takes advantage of a technique that did not exist until 1991. Friction stir welding does not require melting of the material and results in less porosity and other defects than conventional welding.POWERWhereas the 1960s technology Apollo vehicle was confined to using fuel cells and batteries to provide its power, Orion will use space-rated gallium arsenide solar arrays and batteries. Each of the two solar arrays can produce 6000 watts.The electrical system uses 120 VDC circuitry (like ISS), allowing smaller and thus less massive wires.And, of course, battery technology has come a long way in 45 years. The 120 V lithium ion batteries each provide 30 amp-hours.COMMAND INTERFACEGlass cockpit. Apollo was completely controlled by mechanical switches and telemetry indicated by mechanical representation. As the Space Shuttle program evolved, NASA converted the Shuttle cockpits from such a mechanical interface to a glass cockpit. While there are still some mechanical switches for critical items (about 60 in Orion), most interfaces are digitally created. This not only greatly reduces the amount of assembly and the mass of wiring and switches, it allows for easy upgrades. An interface could even be changed on the ground and uplinked to the vehicle, mid-mission, if required. It also allows the information that is most needed at any time to be brought front and center.COMPUTERSThe advanced Vehicle Management Computer (VMC) uses high density flash memory and an ethernet network to communicate with equipment throughout the vehicle. The databus is 1000 times faster than that originally installed on the ISS.COMMUNICATIONSPhased array antennae and the TDRSS (Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System) in combination with ground sites provides near-constant high data rate communication allowing realtime video, audio, and data stream to the mission control center.NAVIGATIONOrion (when close to Earth) can utilize GPS, a technology that didn't exist during the Apollo program.Like the ISS, Orion will use CCD star trackers that take digital pictures of the surrounding space and compare them to a vast atlas of star maps to determine precise orientation of the vehicle. And using more advanced equipment than ISS, these star trackers can work at high vehicle rates.The advanced docking system allows for automated docking using TRIDAR (3-dimensional laser ranging) and cameras with 16 times the resolution used by those on the Space Shuttle.PROPULSIONAttitude control is provided by 12 advanced catalytic thrusters.THERMAL PROTECTION SYSTEM (TPS)Orion benefits from thirty years of work on the Space Shuttle tile system. Almost 1000 silica glass fiber tiles are applied to the exterior surface of Orion.Orion features the largest ablative heat-shield ever built. It is 5 m (16.5 ft) across and weighs about 1000 lbs (450 kg). While the AVCOAT outer layer is not dissimilar to that used on Apollo (and applied in the same achingly manual way (see below comparison picture - Apollo on the left, Orion on the right)), under that ablative AVCOAT is an advanced carbon-fiber skin and titanium skeleton.SEATINGAlso derived from Shuttle experience, are the advanced seats, lightweight and designed to absorb more impact and protect the crew during landing.PARACHUTESThe parachute system involves a series of parachutes that gently decelerate the vehicle from terminal velocity down to about 25 fps (7.5 m/s). The main parachutes each weigh 300 lb (136 kg) and when disreefed are 116 ft (35 m) in diameter.While Apollo depended on barometric sensors to determine the appropriate points in time to activate the various chutes, Orion has a more redundant and precise system that uses barometric sensors, GPS, and IMUs (Inertial Measurement Units) in conjunction with a gravity model.RADIATION SHIELDINGIn addition to materials more adept at deflecting or absorbing radiation before it reaches the crew, the increased volume of the Orion allows shaping shielding around the crew using creative placement of the onboard equipment and supplies.RECYCLINGFuture Orion missions will include a recycling system that will convert crew urine and sweat into clean water for drinking and cooling systems. This technology is based on lessons learned from similar equipment developed for the ISS.