 Robert FrostAlthough there are plenty of elements from the history of the region that appeal to Arthurians, neither is particularly likely. The name of the nearby Roman settlement Camelon appeals because of its similarity to Camelot. The early Strathclyde king Rhydderch Hael appeals because he was said to have a powerful sword (Dyrnwyn) that would blaze with fire when held by one that was worthy. Welsh traditions tell of the bravery of the kings of the region. There were certainly enough active characters in the region that could have inspired the legends. If Arthur existed, it is believed he lived in the 5th or 6th century AD.Moving back towards the assumed time of Arthur, we know little of the burial sites of the kings. One that has maintained its legend is that of the king mentioned above, Rhydderch Hael. He lived from 580-614 and is believed to be buried at the site of Clochoderick Rocking stone in Renfrewshire.Iona (Hy) is known as a place for burial of Scottish kings. There are a few dozen kings buried on the island, starting with Egfrith, a Northumbrian King, in 685, but mostly those kings represent an almost uninterrupted run, starting with Kenneth MacAlpin (Kenneth the Hardy) through to Macbeth (yes, that Macbeth) in 1057. Kenneth died in 858, three or four centuries after Arthur is assumed to have lived. Kenneth was an interesting guy and may have been the inspiration for G.R.R. Martins Red Wedding scene. Kenneth, and the other kings were buried at Iona Abbey, which was founded by St. Colomba in 563 - after Arthur is assumed to have lived. If Arthur was buried on Iona, it would probably necessitate some connection to the druids (before Colomba got to Iona, it was known as the Isle of druids).Govan might have a stronger case, because it has been an important and active site since long before Arthur would have lived. It is one of the oldest, continually inhabited sites in Scotland. It is in an important location. However, its reputation as a site for burial of Strathclyde kings refers to a period long after Arthur. It is believed to be the burial site of kings ranging from Artgal in 872 to Mael Coluim in 1054.