 Robert FrostI haven't observed any difference from the general population, in this regard. Some have religious or spiritual beliefs, some don't. But, if any human has an experience that can be considered spiritual, it has to be the astronauts. They climb into the heavens and look down upon a tiny and frail Earth. Neil Armstrong said:It suddenly struck me that that tiny pea, pretty and blue, was the Earth. I put up my thumb and shut one eye, and my thumb blotted out the planet Earth. I didn't feel like a giant. I felt very, very small.Here are some quotes from astronauts in which they made a connection between their experience and their belief system:Astronaut John Glenn once said:"To look out at this kind of creation and not believe in God is to me impossible. It just strengthens my faith. I wish there were words to describe what it's like."Astronaut Frank Borman read from Genesis during his Apollo 8 flight around the Moon - "In the beginning, God created the heavens and the Earth." After returning, he said: "I had enormous feeling that there had to be a power greater than any of us-that there was a God, that there was indeed a beginning."Apollo 14 astronaut, Edgar Mitchell said:"My view of our planet was a glimpse of divinity."Apollo 15 astronaut, James Irwin said:The Earth reminded us of a Christmas tree ornament hanging in the blackness of space. As we got farther and farther away it diminished in size. Finally it shrank to the size of a marble, the most beautiful marble you can imagine. That beautiful, warm, living object looked so fragile, so delicate, that if you touched it with a finger it would crumble and fall apart. Seeing this has to change a man, has to make a man appreciate the creation of God and the love of God. Apollo 17 astronaut, Gene Cernan said:"When I was the last man to walk on the moon in December 1972, I stood in the blue darkness and looked in awe at the Earth from the lunar surface. What I saw was almost too beautiful to grasp. There was too much logic, too much purpose  it was just too beautiful to have happened by accident. It doesnt matter how you choose to worship God God has to exist to have created what I was privileged to see."Chris Hadfield said:"I think what everyone would find if they could be [up in space] -- if they could see the whole world every 90 minutes and look down on the places where we do things right, and look down where we're doing stupid, brutal things to each other and the inevitable patience of the world that houses us -- I think everybody would be reinforced in their faith, and maybe readdress the real true tenets of what's good and what gives them strength."Others have described the experience in non-spiritual, yet still inspiring terms.Astronauts are people.