 Hmm, this is rather complicated.The way I think of it, is that there is a massive web of interconnected dependencies, both positive and negative, between a variety of investment classes: bonds, stocks, treasuries, emerging markets, currencies, commodities. There's also a multitude of players shifting $ between these investments: retail investors, hedge funds, pension funds, endowments, sovereign governments, world banks, public corporations and their loans/debt.There's no simple single "effect" from rising rates, but rather a ripple effect, some of which end up canceling each other out, others amplifying each other's effects.I don't claim to understand the subtle second order or third order impact of rising rates. But I'll try to give you my understanding of the simple, direct impact. Here's a possible sequence of events following rise in rates.1. Federal reserve thinks the economy is heating up too quickly, and raises rates to prevent overheating. Let's say the fed rate goes up by 0.25%.2. The rate by which large banks can borrow/lend money to each other goes up. 3. Other banks can now generate more returns with their cash reserves. Smaller (regional) banks see their profit increase because their NIM (net interest margin) increases, i.e. they make more $ from their cash. The NIM is the gap between that return and the savings rate they pay individual account holders. You still get nothing from your savings account but banks make $ off of your $. Their margins go up and so does their profit (and share price).4. The cascading effect from higher fed rates produces an increase in the interest rate required to borrow all sorts of $. Now it becomes harder for corporations to borrow money. They find it harder to borrow long term debt to finance mergers and acquisitions or to fund stock buybacks and dividends (companies realize this, and are borrowing $ fast to take advantage of today's low rates. Recent examples include Apple and Gilead.)5. Another effect of higher fed rates is that rates of return go up for US Treasury bills, which produces (I'm fuzzy on how) correlated raises in rates of return for a variety of government and corporate bonds. This in turn means that it is easier to get higher "guaranteed" returns from bonds for lots of entities seeking stable fixed income, including pension funds and conservative investors looking for a safe return from investment (senior citizens etc).6. Large volume of $ flow from #5 means pension funds etc pull $ out of dividend paying stocks, including REITs, MLPs, and stock sectors like consumer staples. Those stocks drop in value, further leading other investors to shift $ towards more cyclical stock sectors, such as technology, industrials, consumer discretionary.7. Not a direct consequence, but correlated: higher rates generally are applied when the economy is heating up. That typically means industrials, materials are in high demand, as the cyclical economy increases demand for raw materials. However, this does not seem to be happening in 2015, because a recovering US economy seems alone in the world. Slowing economies in Asia, Europe, and emerging markets are dramatically depressing the value of commodities, raw materials, and industrials. Rising rates also mean $ flows into the US dollar, and the dollar rises in value relative to global currencies.This is the dilemma the Federal Reserve faces. They can't not raise rates while the US recovery is moving along (unemployment at 5.1%), but cannot raise rates because the US economy is being dragged down by global market partners. A strengthening dollar means US goods cost much more in other countries and become less competitive in price relative to local products. So US exports decrease and imports increase as products from other countries cost less when converted to the US dollar. This strengthens global economies at the expense of US industries. Hence you should stay away from large multinational companies who depend heavily on revenue from outside the US, such as YUM brands, car companies (GM/F), Joy, Caterpillar, Intel, even popular companies like Apple and Facebook.