 hard about all the people in our life and prioritize. Turned it, they prioritized us as well, and readily put in 16 hours of travel to a rural place with no complaints. They helped with the ceremony, they danced and sang and laughed, they loved eating at the beach, and now, about 8 months later, they still remember our wedding and the venue with a wide smile. Weddings in India are never about individuals, they are about family and friends. Isn't it time then that our weddings made them happy?4. Go back to simplicity.Our combined cost of the wedding (yes, we documented pretty much every penny spent) is not even half of what just one party would spend. Hell, the combined cost of all our wedding costumes would barely buy a saree in a mainstream Indian wedding (yes, I am actually happy that my wedding saree is not at all expensive). We spent instead on the comfort of our friends and family, on food, and on helping the local economy - and we did not spend much.The wedding was no grand affair, but it was comfortable and fun, and a big reason for that was the venue. It was so inexpensive! Wedding facilities in city charge us wayyyy higher than necessary, and most facilities are grossly overpriced. I am aware that it is a symbol of prosperity to 'show' how much you can spend on your saree or the jewellery or the food, but frankly, we don't care much about it. The important part is to get good returns for every penny spent.5. Go back to food - your food.Being the foodies we are, the most important part of the wedding (any wedding) for us is food. It was extremely important to us to have purely Marathi food, cooked by Marathis, served the Marathi way. We were tired of the paneer makhanwalas and biryanis served at Marathi weddings, and even though we love Punjabi food (and Punjabis), we are just... not Punjabis.We Indians are fortunate to inherit such a stunning culinary culture, and while pizzas and pastas are always welcome, exploring one's local and historical food is an experience indescribable in words. It can only be relished and lived and relived. And what better occasion than a wedding to do that?So yes, that's it - we got married at a place which gave us a beautiful blend of our five coveted aspects - roots, nature, people, simplicity, and food. We could have hunted and found more similar places, but this one just appealed to us instantly. When it comes to matters of the heart, we felt, the heart is the best judge, after all.I am sure you know a place which preserves your roots in its memory. Which is naturally beautiful and simple, and which calms your mind. Which welcomes your loved ones with grace and affection, and stays in their mind long after you are married. Which is kind to your pocket, and generous to your palate.You do, don't you? Get married there.