 The best thing about an Economics degree is that it gives you a lot of choice. The worst thing is that the choices are too many.The obvious choices for you are data crunching in MNCs, teaching and banking and finance. You will not find it hard to get a job, and you will earn well. However, if these do not interest you, and you are not set upon one particular goal, then it can be confusing, because then you will be possessing quite a few important skills which a lot of people need, but with no clue as to where you would enjoy/gain from applying them. One such field that really requires your skills is that of development. Yes, the subject of Development Economics rings a bell here, doesn't it? With your degree in Economics, you could work on a number of issues which directly affect millions of people on the planet. You could work with population, children, women, refugees, health and hygiene, water and sanitation, community development, environment, agriculture, education, growth and employment, sustainability - you name it.A good Economics degree would arm you with the tools and the thought process that would enable you to work comfortably and efficiently in most of these areas. The average pay isn't extraordinary, but with the right opportunities, you can definitely do well financially.This field is largely dominated by NGOs, but many MNCs are also involved through their CSR programmes. You could also work with governments and international organisations like the World Bank and the UN. If you are someone who is sensitive about human welfare and development, this is your chance to do something about it. It is a field which is not much sought after - an average Economics graduate would want to be a banker more than an agricultural economist with an NGO for instance - and a conscious decision to step into this field would mean you choose to positively impact the lives of the masses every single day. Using your degree to leave the world a better place? Not such a bad idea.