 I'll try to answer this with my own example.I got married at a very, very beautiful beach in a small, picturesque Maharashtrian village named Anjarle. The sun was out, the breeze was lovely, the sea clean and blue. Guests were few but fun, and food was delicious.do you spot the sea?To be honest, the idea of getting married at Anjarle was a decision which was not very popular at the beginning. It raised a lot of eyebrows and arguments, and if it weren't for my husband's determination, I would have found it extremely difficult to convince a whole bunch of people to let us tie the knot there.Why Anjarle? There are a bunch of reasons, several of them extremely personal, but then so is marriage. Many of these reasons you might not connect with them, but the ones that appeal to you - they can help you determine where you want to take your first step into a life of love and companionship.1. Go back to your roots.Not mine, but definitely my husband's. My husband's maternal grandfather was born and grew up in this village before he left for Pune for education and Vidarbha for his career. My husband has childhood memories of this place, and it holds a special tug at his heart. It is also located in his native region Konkan (as he is a Konkanastha), and means a lot to him culturally.Legacy, history, cultural roots are considered laughable and irrelevant things today. But dig a bit deep and you will find a connection you cannot resist. We did that, and it led us to Anjarle.2. Go back to nature.We are no wildlife enthusiasts or environmental activists, but we love trees, flowers, clean air, sun, sand, and sea. We absolutely adore the red soil of Konkan, the banana and coconut plantations, and the way small paths meander and end abruptly in the Arabian sea. Opting for the Vedic rituals of marriage, we also looked to include the five elements of nature - the panchamahabhutas - in our wedding. The open sky (akash), the clean air (vayu), the holy yajna (agni), the sea (jal), and the red soil of Anjarle (prithvi) were direct participants in the ceremony.The philosophical bit apart, simply going back to clean air, the sea roaring in the distance, the birds twittering on trees, the sweet smell of acacia nuts and bananas, the quiet sunshine pouring through plantations, and the slowing down of time can do wonders. Crowded marriage halls overflowing with gaudy lights and noise, overlooking gutters and traffic jams, and smelling of smoke and pollution hold no merit in front of nature's beauty.3. Go back to people.Ever winced at the overflowing crowds at marriages and the forced smiles in front of the camera? We did, and we wanted to avoid those. So we simply invited people who made us smile. The advantage of the venue was that it couldn't hold too many people, and that made us think