 As Abhijeet said, the 'rest of Maharashtra' is too diverse to be clubbed together, but while it can still glue together as a state over quite a few aspects, Mumbai stands apart - and no, it's not just because of the roaming charges you start incurring once you enter Mumbai.Mumbai is more cosmopolitan and 'least Marathi' than the rest of Maharashtra. That is manifest most clearly in terms of language and food, but also through entertainment options, customs and subtly, through clothing. The Marathi spoken across the state varies from sub-region to sub-region, and so do foodstuffs and customs, but Mumbai is starkly different, with areas that don't speak any Marathi at all, don't sell any Maharashtrian food or food products, and have no inkling of local Marathi festivals.Mumbai beats each and every city in the state when it comes to pace of life. Hell, I feel it beats every city across the country as well. Mumbai is incredibly fast, hurtling continuously towards achieving one goal, only to hurtle again towards the next. Anyone who paints a picture of Maharashtrians based on Mumbai's pace will be surprised to know that Maharashtrians in the rest of the state, including those in more developed cities like Pune, Nasik, Kolhapur, Aurangabad and Nagpur, are way slower, relaxed and chilled out and have a lot more time in their hands.Rest of Maharashtra is more conservative than Mumbai. Mumbai might very well be an international city, but the rest of the state is very much 'Indian'; a majority lives in towns and villages, is fairly religious and traditional, and less individualistic when compared to Mumbai. A Mumbaikar who has never ventured into the nooks and corners of Maharashtra would be surprised to know that many of his norms (or things he takes for granted) are their anomalies and even taboos. Gender norms, family life, concepts of privacy and social life, materialistic tastes and preferences, and overall attitudes towards life are very different and more liberal in Mumbai, and more often do not match those of rest of Maharashtra. "Money-minded" Mumbai. Mumbaikars are frequently criticised by other Maharashtrians, for their "money-minded" approach; there is definitely a certain degree of generalisation in this, but I wouldn't be wrong to say that Maharashtrians find Mumbaikars excessively money-oriented, measuring everything only in monetary terms.Mumbai lives 'in the present'. Perhaps because it hardly has any significant pre-British history, or perhaps because it just does not care, Mumbai doesn't care about histories and glories as much as the rest of Maharashtra does. The Shivaji fad being largely political and an exception, Mumbai is largely indifferent to any historical pride. The rest of Maharashtra, notably cities like Pune, Kolhapur, Aurangabad and Nasik have a strong element of historical pride as they have been important political and/or cultural power centres at different points of time. Many more can be perceived, but it is quite challenging to state them without risking inaccurate generalisation. The ones mentioned above, however, hold ground to a considerable extent.