 Most answers here have covered almost all factors that cause Indians to break traffic rules. Many of them are actually within the individual's control, while many are due to social, peer and institutional forces. There are two factors, however, which I feel are hugely at work and not been adequately considered. They are -The tendency to 'fix it' (modifiable at the individual level)The inconvenience of commuting/travelling in India (largely out of individual's control)The average Indian routine is multi-dimensional, spread out, and chaotic. That is largely because it is packed with people, events, failure and repetition of many daily tasks (due to inefficient systems and inadequate infrastructure), infrastructural struggles, limited/inefficient technology, and an inherent lack of management understanding. We rarely get time to sit and plan our days, tasks and priorities consciously and systematically; most of the time, we are on the run, juggling everything on the way, mostly getting things done as and when they directly stare into our face and block out everything else. With little time, resources and focus to work on things diligently, we just go about fixing them as and when they break down.A similar thing happens when we commute. We know we have to be some place at some time. Many a times, we also know how much traffic we would have to encounter and how long it would take to go there. Yet, since we already have our hands full fixing other stuff, we simply do not have the time to sit and plan all our tasks in such a way that we get that exact time frame to make the commute and reach in time. So, a) we are either late, orb) we break the traffic rules - signals, speed limits, one-way signs etc. - and make it on time.Following traffic rules do not allow us to 'fix' hence we break them.Further, commuting in India is one nerve-wrecking task. Indian cities and towns have hardly heard of urban planning; they have simply grown like a wild nettle bush. There is little logic to how roads appear, turn and blend into each other. Many of them are narrow and in extremely bad shape. To top it all, they are now packed with cars that grow larger and larger in size and number (making them seem narrower than ever), and they can no longer sustain the ever-growing traffic which comprises of a chaotic motley of all sorts of vehicles, hawkers, people and animals.Wading through this chaos is difficult, stressful and time consuming, and the added woe are ill-designed traffic rules. Roads turned into one-ways are often those on which are heavily packed with traffic. Too many traffic signals on one main road are frustrating - you stop at one, you stop at all. U-turns not allowed, meaning you have to go four blocks further just to go one block back from your original position. A street full of shops and restaurant has no parking space, meaning you have to park by the road side, and make the road more congested, or park at some faraway spot and walk down all the way. Driving in one lane consistently isn't easy, because you never know when you will come across a pothole or a dog or a hawker, and you will have to swerve instantly into the lane beside you, disturbing all the vehicles in your vicinity.And added to it, the lack of patience or time, because we have exhausted it all in fixing other things of our daily life.This leads us to finding our own solutions - even if they be illegal or downright wrong or harmful. For someone who knows how the regular Indian runs his life, breaking traffic rules shouldn't be a surprise. It is simply a manifestation of our tendency to fix things by doing whatever is in our control, rather than taking the systematic, albeit long-ish route of doing things in an orderly way.