 eyes as big and round as saucers. I looked down to the shopping bag.A cow was eating our precious fenugreek.My cousin was quick to react - she gave an earth-shattering shriek, leapt over the farmer - vegetables and all - and was off. I was slow; I stared in terror, then uttered something loud and unintelligible, and was off too. The third followed. And our shopping bag lay there in the middle, orphaned and vulnerable, while the cow dragged the fenugreek out, threw it aside, and followed us.Looking back, I think it was the din we caused that made her chase us. At that moment however, my 11-year-old brain had no time or capacity to think. As the cow chased us, we panicked even more, we ran through the market screaming, our frocks and pigtails flying. The cow followed, trampling whatever vegetables came her way, though thankfully, the road was large enough for her to not collide with most of the heaps. The crowd was surprisingly agile, and it quickly made way for the screaming girls and the galloping cow, and no one was hurt. But the whole market came to a standstill, and so did the traffic. Finally, one of the farmers managed to calm the cow down and take her away. The old lady who sold us tomatoes brought our shopping bags and leftover money with a toothy grin. When asked where we wanted to go, we feebly said "the hospital", and since it was the only one in the village, we were taken there easily.We plopped down on the chairs in the hospital lobby. We were completely dishevelled, red in the face, and shaken. We were terrified! The fenugreek was gone, but that was the least of our worries. Images of the cow at our heels, tearing through the market kept coming back at us. Slowly, the shock wore off, and the quantum leap of our cousin over the farmer and his stock got us smiling and then rolling with laughter. What an experience!!... A patient could not keep his appointment and was late. We watched as he hustled past us into my father's cabin. Outside, we could hear my father asking him sternly the reason for being late."What could I do, Doctor? There was so much traffic. I had no option but to wait.""Traffic is a very regular excuse," my father said sharply, " you should have left in time. You cannot take health related matters so lightly.""I did leave on time, Doctor. I would have reached 5-10 minutes early if there wasn't the whole commotion at the market.""What commotion?!""Well you see, there was some talk about a cow chasing three school girls... what an uproar... those girls brought the whole market to a standstill, and choked up the traffic as well. We had to wait until the cow was brought under control and the girls were dropped off wherever they were supposed to go..."I still remember how hard my father laughed.