 Quora is teeming with lists of all sorts of books that should be read, and I have provided a few of them, so I won't put up a list again. Also, it is really hard to state absolutes when there is so much diversity in content, languages and readability when it comes to books, hence I can provide a check-list of what content one should ideally cover in their twenties (along with what I read, if I did, in tandem with that) - 1. A bitter-sweet love story.No, Chetan Bhagat's stories do not count. Twenties are the time to build new relationships, and experience changes in old relationships. Understanding them through a non-rose-tinted lens, yet in a balanced and not necessarily calculated manner is vital. My picks - Rau, Gone with the Wind.2. An inspirational book.This is the time to dream dreams and believe in every bit of them. Be it a person or an idea, reading about something that inspires and keeps you going stays in your heart - and your cupboard- for long.My pick - Eka Dishecha Shodh.3. War.Violence and full-scale wars are not an integral part of many people's lives, but it is important to be introduced to that aspect of humanity. It gives you a perspective of our dark side through your own imagination, and heightens your ability to empathise and recognise the flip and pathetic side of war.My picks - All Quiet on the Western Front, Dresden.4. History.It never hurts to know some, and it always benefits to know as much as possible. Do not limit it to a region or person or a period.My picks - Shreeman Yogi, Rise and Fall of the Third Reich, Eka Teliyane. 5. Travel.Travelling extensively in the twenties is the best thing ever, but if it doesn't work out practically, go for the next best thing - read about it. Travel experiences of other people, if well explained, can go a long way in fuelling your imagination and insight about the world surrounding you.My pick - From Heaven Lake.6. A 'disturbing' book.A book that reaches out to how you have been viewing the world, and shows you an aspect of it you never even thought of. A books that takes you out of your comfort zone and makes you think. And most probably end with you not feeling very good.My picks - Animal Farm, 1984.7. A philosophical book.Food for your grey cells. My picks - Dasbodh, Bhagwad Gita. (both unfinished)8. Classic Short Stories.A good short story is a tequila shot of the intricacies of human nature. The classic ones, though a bit wordy, are both exotic and familiar and stand the test of time. They are a quick read as well.My picks - stories by Gulzar, Saki, Somerset Maugham, O. Henry, Ruskin Bond. 9. Humour and Entertainment.A chuckle to a full dose of laughter, and you will not want anything else. My picks - The Corfu Trilogy, The Jeeves Omnibus, works of Pu La Deshpande. (some unfinished)10. A non-academic book related closely to your field of study/work.Face it, textbooks can get boring after a point of time. To keep your appetite intact, delve into the more entertaining/thought-provoking/real-life aspects of your subject of study/work.My pick - Freakonomics, Water Wars.11. A classic.Just because.My picks - Arthashastra (unfinished), Mrutyunjay, The Count of Monte Cristo, Around the World in 80 Days, Old Man and the Sea, Jane Eyre.12. Thrillers and Detective Stories.They are a fascinating insight into human psychology.My picks - The Unexpected Guest (Agatha Christie), Sherlock Holmes.This list by no means is exhaustive - it can be something you can begin with. The key, I feel, is to identify aspects of life which you directly or indirectly experience (or further, don't experience at all) and read works and content which comforts, stabilises and enriches those experiences.