 I am very, very fortunate to be surrounded by people whom I can describe as exceptionally intelligent. They enrich my life greatly, and have made me a permanent admirer and seeker of intelligence. I have also been fortunate enough to see their lives closely, as they have opened up to me, directly or indirectly, and given me important glimpses of their lives.The best part about being intelligent is that it enriches lives, their own as well as those who are close to them. Of course, if it is harnessed in the most optimum and wise manner, which these people have. They have managed to conserve and efficiently utilise all possible resources within their reach, including the most precious - time, to glean the best of what their life has to offer. They have made the best they could of every object, opportunity, concept, situation and person in their life. Being intelligent has also made them attractive to those like me. Their knowledge, their analysis, their ability to see what no one does, the depth of their understanding is addictive, and it never ceases to amaze and intrigue me. I find myself, just like many find themselves, drawn to such people, for they ignite a never-ending fire in our minds, and feed it with their intelligence. Coupled with humility and firm grounding, this intelligence is impossible to resist.Yet, there are some downsides as well. If intelligence is not coveted, it is intimidating. Hell, even if it is, it can still be intimidating, at least in the initial stages. People who intimidate others with their intelligence, howsoever unintentionally, end up with relatively more difficulty in establishing emotionally close relationships sustainably. They definitely gain respect and even admiration, but personal comfort levels are challenging to establish as others end up viewing them as somehow superior to the rest. Many of those who are intelligent too find it difficult to establish, manage and sustain strong relationships/ties with the majority, as their unique abilities make them stand out; indeed, you are rather alone if you are at the top. It is not out of spite or arrogance at all, but intelligent people tend to be choosy about the company they keep, as they are aware of who can contribute what to their lives. This often conflicts with their emotional needs, and it is a long struggle for most exceptionally intelligent people unless they completely transform their personalities and gain the necessary skills to attract multiple strong relationships, or accept that they would always share a rapport with a customised and slim selection of people.Contrary to question details, I have assumed intelligence to be beyond "really good in studies", though I am sure these points would apply more or less to those who are academically brilliant as well.