 Terrifying and hilarious.Those were Christmas vacations, and my cousins had come over to stay. We were three girls in the age group of 9-11 years.In those days, my father, a doctor and a surgeon, would regularly visit rural areas around our city and treat rural patients. Every weekend, he would take out his car at the crack of dawn, and return home, tired but content, late night. One Sunday that winter, he picked us three and decided to take us with him. The reason was - the weekly vegetable bazaar in one of the villages he was visiting that day. He decided that the time had come for his daughter and nieces to learn a bit about rural life, picking and choosing vegetables, and dealing with multiple monetary transactions. He packed us in his car just before the crack of dawn, and we took off.It was early morning when we reached the village which was to be our hunting ground. The village bazaar was already buzzing with activity. My father gave us a few grocery bags, a thick wad of currency notes, and a piece of paper with the address of the hospital scribbled on it and he drove off.As the dust swept up by his car began dying down, three pairs of eyes gazed wonderingly at the vibrant scene. Heaps and heaps of fresh, colourful vegetables lay all around us. Farmers sat down on their hunches behind these heaps and cried out the prices in hoarse voices. Women in colourful sarees and men in super white shirts and dhotis shopped and walked and haggled. A small merry-go-round creaked musically as small kids rode it and chirped with joy. Next to him, a milkman was selling fresh milk and butter. A thelawala served hot tea and bhajiyas, his neighbour sold earthen pots, and right behind them, flanked by women from all sides, another guy sold brightly coloured bangles.We three urban kids drank it all in. After considerable goldfish-y gulping, we decided to commence our task. Sincere in our demeanour, we approached the nearest old lady who was selling tomatoes, and our shopping kicked off.It went well, and being three rather than one helped. We were particularly happy with ourselves when we managed to buy some really fresh, green, beautiful fenugreek and decided to perch it like a crown on top of one of our already full shopping bag (so that my father would spot it first and beam with pleasure). That done, we moved on to buying some other vegetables.The bag that was full (fenugreek on the top) was kept down between me and one of the cousins, the leaves very lightly grazing our bare knees, while the other circled the farmer in order to check out the vegetables on the other side. While we haggled, I felt a slight, moist sensation on my calf, but I ignored it - until I saw the other cousin, on the opposite side, staring between us two with