 "Overrated" is your perception, so I won't go by that, but I can definitely share a thought or two about why he garners so much attention, involvement, and support among common folk - i.e. through the layman lens of viewing the Mahabharata.The soft corner for Karna begins with his birth - when his mother abandons him as an innocent, helpless baby in the clutches of a mighty river which had every chance of killing him. Coupled with the fact that he is the illustrious child of the Sun (an extremely revered entity in Hindu philosophy, religion and mythology), Karna sets the perfect stage for a mixture of awe and tender sympathy right with his first breath of life. He is then taken up by a humble charioteer in the service of the king of Hastinapur and his wife, and this prince grows as an extraordinary boy in ordinary surroundings, unaware of his identity... just how many stories do we have which run on similar lines? It is a classic case that appeals to our mindset.Karna grows along with the Kauravas, and commands their respect, and Duryodhan's friendship due to his virtues and inherent qualities. He is that hard working, brilliant, self-made but underprivileged boy whom everyone admires. He is dedicated to his peers, and believes in responding with gratitude whatever attention and appreciation he gets. He is a great believer in friendship, willing to go out of the way for it, and is sentimental about his people. He is a hero with a heart.And then there are stories splattered across Karna's dynamic life - stories of valour and love, of loss and mental strength, of disillusion and steadfastness, of his famed generosity and supreme ability to sacrifice, of his biggest strength and weakness of being extraordinarily simple and human in a sea of complex, conniving and grey characters. Karna appeals to the common Indian mindset for all of these and most importantly, because he matches exactly what we all wish to be.Over years, the grey scale of the Mahabharata has been played down, and characters have been largely singled out to be so good/bad that the common public no longer relates to them. It either places them on a pedestal, or dumps them altogether, but pretty much none of the characters gets them so involved. Karna appeals to people's emotions; his tragedy pulls heartstrings, his sacrifices awe us, his generosity and friendship make us yearn for a friend like him and to be like him, and his final defeat on the battlefield leave us with a loss, a sense of helplessness and fiery respect for the great warrior and man he ultimately developed into.Delve into our popular culture - movies, books, tales, plays, songs - and observe the hero's qualities; I would be surprised if you cannot relate them to Karna. Karna has seeped into our consciousness as the embodiment of an extraordinary yet accessible, divine yet human, rock-solid yet sentimental figure that everyone aspires to be, yet few actually can.Karna appeals because he is unique, but more so because he resides, at least as a wish, in each one of us.