 The few answers here have covered most points, so I won't repeat those. Instead, I'll mention five interesting qualities of Indians (which I always took for granted) which I (re)discovered through conversations with non-Indians.1. Survivors.Indians are survivors. They have survived invasions, famines, oppression, violence - you name it, and they still manage to scrape through and come out quite decently in the end. These are the 'all's well that ends well' people, those who sincerely believe that everything happens for 'good', that adversity is simply God's way of testing us and hence we should still be kind and compassionate no matter what befalls us.I have had foreigners point this out to me as a fact that struck them as naive and marvellous at the same time. It builds rock-solid resilience, allowing Indians to stand the test of time, they told me, while it also retains a childlike innocence in viewing the world and life. Extraordinary.2. Tolerance.The religion bit is not that new any more, but the Indian tolerance towards all that is unpleasant is quite a characteristic. From nosy aunts, to ill-built roads, to loud babies in theatres, to irregular milkmen and maid-servants, to corrupt bureaucrats, to blatant racism, to openly ridiculing physical deformities, to shamelessly peeping into others' personal lives - we have it and accept it all. It was on Quora that I actually learnt that a lot of things that we take in our stride (and I am regularly 'guilty' of) are utterly horrifying to a lot of Westerners, however, I have had quite a few Western friends tell me that the ease at which Indians accommodate even the most insane things amazes them.3. Colours.Indians are bright, bold and dazzling. While women flaunt every colour recognised by the human eye, the men are not left behind as well. We splash colours throughOur clothesOur foodyes, that's blue.Our artOur moviesOur GodsOur housesOur festivalsand the list goes on.Many non-Indians I met found that overwhelming at first, but it did not take them much time to adjust, and then grow fond of our zest for colours. An active interest in the beauty of the world, combined with a zeal to live life to the fullest, they said.4. Hospitality.If there is one thing Indians take seriously, that is "Atithi devo bhav". Across religions and regions, one thing that really binds Indians is their treatment of guests. For a non-Indian, it can get awkward and over-bearing, but for Indians, guests and their comfort are of prime importance. Many non-Indian friends of mine who have stayed with us or other Indian families have appreciated, time and again, the warm hospitality they receive. Even after they have returned home, every time the topic of their trip comes up, they never fail to mention the hospitality as one of their fondest memories. Indian hosts, they say, are great at breaking ice, establishing closeness and informality, and making the guest feel like a family member, while spoiling him to the fullest with attention, curiosity, companionship, warmth and enthusiasm. Indeed, many of them want to visit again.5. Curiosity.Many non-Indians are struck by the fact that Indians are genuinely curious about other cultures, customs, histories and countries. Indians who travel abroad or come in contact with non-Indians come across as a curious lot, keen to explore or at least be informed about other parts of the world, while the lesser privileged back home make the point clear by bestowing unabashed stares on anyone or anything looking 'unIndian', whether in reel or real life. Be it plain curiosity or a hidden agenda, Indians never cease wondering about how things are across the planet. Many non-Indians I know, especially Americans, marvel at the curiosity and the enthusiasm through which Indians look at the world.