 Traditionally, the norm for documenting experimental results was to write dated entries in pen in a paper lab notebook whose pages are bound in such a way that it is impossible to add or remove pages surreptitiously.I know of very few people who exclusively do this. The reality of modern experimentation is that most of the data are digital and different types of experiments necessitate different types of documentation. However, there are some general best practices to satisfy the two main purposes of data documentation:Allow for you and your colleagues to understand your work process months and years after the experiment. It is almost guaranteed that you will forget precisely what you did, and one would hope that your colleagues would have use for your data after you move on.Exonerate yourself from suspicions of academic fraud, if such a circumstance arises.Some of these best practices are:Store your raw, unprocessed data separately from your analyzed data (on a different machine) and back it up automatically. Include as much metadata as possible in the data file itself or store a parallel 'log' file for every data file. This metadata should include the variables that you set during your experiment (e.g. temperature, measurement duration, etc) and the date/time that the data were taken. This allows the experimental details to be ascertained in the absence of a lab notebook (even if you keep one, the person looking through the data might not have it at that moment) and to be searchable. In some cases, the metadata can also manifest itself in the directory structure where you keep your files. For example, the top level folder can be named by the date/time stamp, the next level can be named by the temperature, etc, etc. Keep a lab notebook in the form that is best suited for the norms of your research group and the types of experiments you do. For some people, this may be a traditional paper lab notebook. For others, it might be a digital lab notebook (e.g. evernote). For other situations, it may suffice to have an excel file listing the names of the files, the variables that were changed for each entry, and optional notes for thoughts/observations related to each file. In other cases, the 'lab notebook' might be compiled automatically as part of an automated data collection procedure. In all cases, the guiding principle for what goes in your lab notebook is 'I will forget everything I did.'If you do name your own directories, decide on a consistent naming scheme and stick to it. It should probably begin with the date (in a consistent format for sorting) and it might have a brief summary of the experiment.Think about how you will actually process the data. Will you do it via brute force, or will you write a program to go through the directories and parse the data you need? This will guide how you name your files and construct your directories, and it may take time to come up with a good system if you are the first person in your research group to do a certain type of experiment.