 For helium-4, the more abundant isotope, bringing extraterrestrial sources back to earth is a worthless proposition because of the quantities that are required. For helium-3, it may be economically feasible to mine it on the moon, but we haven't come close to completely exploiting all the ways of manufacturing it on earth.My answer to Are we really running out of helium?, received many ridiculous comments about how we don't have to conserve helium on earth because we can just get it from the moon (or better yet, Jupiter. Seriously, people? fucking jupiter??), so I thought I would address this here.BackgroundAll of the helium-4 on earth is produced via radioactive decay of uranium and thorium, and hence there is a finite amount which can ever exist. Moreover, once it is released into the atmosphere, it becomes so diffuse that it is stupid expensive to recover it. Finally, the helium which does exist in the atmosphere is slowly being released into space because of its low atomic mass. Thus, helium is a non-renewable resource on earth and one which is non-substitutable for some applications, particularly for leak-checking certain types of pressure or vacuum vessels and for cooling things down close to absolute zero temperature for scientific study. Helium makes up almost a quarter of the mass in our universe, and it is found in abundance in our sun and in gaseous planets in our solar system. Additionally, there is some quantity on the moon. However, this does NOT mean that it is practical with today's, tomorrow's, and next century's technology to extract helium from these extraterrestrial sources and bring it back to earth. In the rest of the answer, I will primarily make reference to lunar mining for the obvious reason that it is over 1000 times closer to the earth than Jupiter is.see also: Inna Vishik's answer to Are we really running out of helium?Helium-4These days, liquid helium-4 cost ~$1000 for 100L, and this amount of helium might keep a physics experiment at 4.2K for one week. This 100L of liquid helium weighs only ~12.5kg. An equal volume of water would weigh almost 10 times as much. According to wikipedia, previous space shuttle launches had payloads of ~15,000kg (and this didn't go as far as the moon, but whatever). This is only $1.2 million of helium at today's prices, and launching a shuttle to reach the moon (which is a lot cheaper than say, jupiter) is at least two orders of magnitude more expensive, not to mention the cost of actually finding and mining helium on the moon. Helium-4 is a very poor candidate for extraterrestrial mining because you really need a lot of it (unlike, say, platinum) to do anything useful. Long before prices rise enough to make extraterestrial mining a topic of conversation, you will see the end of recreational helium balloons, all research/industrial users will be required to recycle, and mining operations will become more keen on extracting/selling smaller amounts of helium instead of just releasing it to atmosphere.Helium-3Helium-3 is a rarer isotope of helium, and most of it is manufactured as a byproduct of nuclear energy/weapons, rather than mined like helium-4 (though it can also be mined). In low-temperature physics, He-3 is required in order to reach the lowest temperatures currently possible for bulk solids--down to milliKelvin temperatures. It also has potential as a fuel for nuclear fusion. He-3 costs over $2000 per liter (note that I quoted the price for He-4 per 100L) , but much smaller quantities are needed than of He-4, excluding the possibility that fusion applications become more ubiquitous one day. In recent years, only ~8kg per year were used in the US. He-3 is more common in the moon's crust than it is on earth (see: lunarnetworks.blogspot.in). This coupled with the fact that it is 100x more expensive and used in orders of magnitude less quantity than helium-4, might make lunar mining a less ridiculous proposition. However, the earth's resources of He-3 have not been utilized to their full capacity, so I foresee an effort in that area before lunar mining is considered.see: Page on fas.org