 There are research groups and collaborations that strive to discover and/or engineer new high-temperature and/or novel superconductors. I previously discussed one set of strategies here. Because condensed matter physics, materials science, and solid state chemistry are empirical sciences, people search for new and/or high temperature superconductors based on known superconducting materials and physics which is understood about superconductors. Meanwhile, many other scientists work to understand unconventional and high-temperature superconductors that have already been discovered, in order to eventually formulate new pathways for engineering new superconductors. Below are some examples of recent systematic searches for high temperature superconductors:Searching for new high temperature superconductors based on iron-based high temperature superconductorsOne of the most important developments in superconductivity research in the past decade was the discovery of a new family of high-temperature superconductors: the iron-based superconductors. For four years starting March 2010, the person who discovered superconductivity in these iron pnictide materials, Hideo Hosono, led a consortium of 6 professors (mostly solid state chemists) in an effort to discover new (hopefully high-Tc) superconductors and engineer useful products out of iron-based superconductors. In the end, this group synthesized ~1000 new compounds, and superconductivity was found in several tens of new compounds. None of them had a high Tc, but they did have success in engineering wires out of iron-based superconductors for applications. This collaboration also emphasized publishing their failures--the compounds which were synthesized but not found to be superconductors--in order for future researchers not to waste time. Overview of project: Science and Technology of Advanced Materials (STAM): Reported successes and failures aid hot pursuit of superconductivityPublished paper: Page on iop.orgHistory of Fe-based superconductors and their Tc. Source: A collaboration of researchers in Japan report on four years of extensive research into superconductivity, including the materials that were found not to have superconducting properties, as well as those that were, and their potential for wires and devices. | JSAP BULLETIN | The Japan Society of Applied PhysicsSearching for high temperature superconductivity in hydridesRoom-temperature superconductivity has been predicted in metallic atomic hydrogen (which can only be achieved at very high pressures and has never been made in a lab) back in the 1960s. Based on this prediction, together