 Difficulty (or more precisely, utter failure) is a common experience when trying to do a novel or challenging experiment. In the academic context, when one has already sunk money and/or time into a specific experiment, the goal is to make it work, even if the working form ends up being different or less ambitious than the initial conception.I view tinkering and conceptual re-evaluation as existing on a spectrum. On one end is the brainless moving of knobs and rebooting of random components in hopes of an easy fix; this is often what we default to for initial troubleshooting or out of crushing desperation. On the other end of the spectrum is completely redesigning the experiment from scratch, and one hopes it doesn't come to this. In between is where the most progress is made. It is hard to specify a course of action without knowing the specific experiment and the specific difficulty, but I can give some general advice.Get organized. Make a list of the things that might be going wrong, and formulate a strategy for isolating/troubleshooting each of these variables.Get some sleep. It is easy to get into a rut of trying things, failing, and then trying a similar thing, and this cycle can sap your creativity. If you just leave it for the night, you might come back refreshed the next day with new ideas.Talk to people. Others might be able to solve your difficulty: they might have unique expertise that you don't have or they might have the benefit of a fresh set of eyes. Even if they can't solve your problem, the act of articulating the problems with your experiment can clarify the difficulties in your own mind.Be patient. Sometimes it can take months to troubleshoot a problem with an experimental setup and/or a funky result.Make it work. Experiments often fail, but (in academia at least) it is important to still have something to show. Sometimes this involves pivoting on the problem you are studying. For example, if you were trying to measure a tiny signal in system A, you might look for a system B with a larger signal, even if it is a bit less spectacular. It is good to have these sorts of backup plans when formulating a research problem. Sometimes making it work means changing your goals entirely. Instead of trying to measure a tiny signal in system A, you might write a paper about the upper limit of this tiny signal based on the capabilities (characterized by other means) of your experiment.