 A coverletter for manuscript submission is a document intended for the editor of the journal in order to persuade them to send the manuscript for peer review. The coverletter is usually 1-2 pages long. An example structure is as follows:Introductory paragraph/sentence: "With this note, we would like to submit our manuscript, titled ________ (maybe include # of words and # of figures in parenthesis), for consideration as a Letter/Article/ResearchReport."Second paragraph: summarize key findings to an audience (the editor) who might not be a specialist in your field. Don't copy and paste the abstract, because you will likely need to include more background.Third paragraph: explain significance of findings. This is the most important paragraph, and what you write here will depend on the type of journal you are submitting to. For journals which strive for more 'high impact' papers, one emphasizes how this work is an important discovery or how it solves important problems in the field. For specialists' journals, one might emphasize how this work will be a resource for future researchers in the field. Closing sentence/paragraph: sometimes one includes: "This manuscript has not been published and is not under consideration for publication elsewhere." Sometimes one gives evidence that this will likely be a well-cited paper: "We have presented parts of this work in several major conferences of the field, and almost every time it has become a central highlight...". Usually close with: "Thank you very much for your consideration."Sincerely, Corresponding Author (which isn't always the same as first author and/or the person submitting the manuscript)In addition, some people include a list of "excluded" referees (e.g. people with a conflict of interest) at the end of the letter: "Due to the conflict of interests caused by directly competitive nature of the research, please do not ask following individuals to review the paper." Some journals have a separate section in the submission procedure where this information can be provided.The easiest way to construct a coverletter is to work off one that a colleague has successfully used for the same or a similar journal. It is not clear how much they actually sway the editors' decision to send a manuscript out for peer review, because the importance of a work is very hard to judge by someone outside the field, other than through external signifiers like the authors' reputations. However, it is standard practice to include this document, put a few days' thought into it, and seek co-authors' feedback.