 The Fermi surface is the locus of zero-energy excitations in a metal. Superconductivity is a low energy electronic phenomenon, defined (in part) by a superconducting gap which is centered on the Fermi surface. The Fermi surface is determined by the number of charge carriers and the type of bonding the material undergoes, and it can be measured experimentally by a number of experimental techniques (see: Inna Vishik's answer to What kind of qualitative and quantitative information can be obtained from ARPES? and Inna Vishik's answer to What is the significance of the De Haasvan Alphen effect?)The pairing symmetry describes how the superconducting wavefunction transforms with respect to exchanging electrons. It has a spin and an orbital (spatial) component. The spin component is either singlet (Cooper pairs of opposite spin) or triplet (yes, this can happen too), and the corresponding orbital component must be even for singlet pairing (s,d,g wave) or odd for triplet pairing (p,f wave). The pairing mechanism (is superconductivity mediated by phonons or something else) is a distinct question, though certain pairing symmetries may favor one mechanism over another. (see: Inna Vishik's answer to What is a d-wave superconductor vs. an s-wave superconductor?)To answer the original question, to the best of my knowledge people cannot predict a pairing symmetry just by knowing a superconducting material's Fermiology without any further information. Once they have further information from thermodynamic, spectroscopic, and magnetic probes, they can narrow down the possible pairing symmetries, which can then be confirmed by order-parameter sensitive probes (spin susceptibility measured by NMR Knight shift and specifically constructed Josephson junctions are the gold standards for ascertaining the spin and spatial component, respectively, but a myriad of other techniques exist when these are not possible for whatever reason). Notably, any technique which experimentally measures superconducting pairing symmetry is implicitly looking at the Fermi surface (even if they don't know what the Fermi surface looks like) because superconductivity only affects the electrons very close to the Fermi surface.This paper (free preprint here)is a nice example of using a material's fermilogy, together with information from other experiments, to argue for some pairing symmetries over others via process of elimination.