 I experienced the trauma of Liboff's quantum mechanics book in my undergraduate introductory class, coupled with a professor who thought this would be a good idea. My main problem with the book is that it is terrible as an introductory textbook because it is written in such a way to show off to an expert audience how well another expert has synthesized quantum mechanics and distilled it into 'simpler' language (and also "remixed" it into an uncoventional exposition order). This attempt to appeal to an expert audience is perhaps why some professors are drawn to Liboff, but undergraduates are decidedly NOT experts, and they need more thoughtful pedagogy.Below are some specific complaints, based on the 4th edition of the book. If there is any justice in the world it is that there has not been a 5th edition.The book is ~2-3x longer than it needs to be and could have benefited from some serious editing. There are only a handful of exactly solvable problems in quantum mechanics, so 840 pages is completely inappropriate for a first go-round. The book is fluffed up with numerous 'real world' examples which are too specialized for a general undergraduate physics audience.The first actual physics exposition comes in chapter 7, starting p 187. The first 1/4 of the book is filled with history and mathematical formalism, which is unacceptable for a physics textbook. Some people have this erroenous idea that one needs to learn all the mathematics they need before they tackle physics concepts. If someone has chosen to be a physics major, they will almost certainly be more engaged if you introduce mathematical concepts as necessary to explain physics concepts. This book could have started with just one introductory math chapter, like many other quantum mechanics books.Concepts are presented in a weird order which doesn't properly reflect a natural pedagogical progression. Harmonic oscillator before rectangular barrier problems with each of them occupying a fraction of a chapter? Higher dimensional versions of these canonical problems presented a few chapters later? WKB approximation towards the beginning of the book and perturbation theory at the very end?Liboff is bad as an introductory textbook, but it also isn't great as a reference book to have on your bookshelf. Even as a paperweight it is failing because the cover is fraying prematurely.