 There are research groups and collaborations that strive to discover and/or engineer new high-temperature and/or novel superconductors. I previously discussed one set of strategies here. Because condensed matter physics, materials science, and solid state chemistry are empirical sciences, people search for new and/or high temperature superconductors based on known superconducting materials and physics which is understood about superconductors. Meanwhile, many other scientists work to understand unconventional and high-temperature superconductors that have already been discovered, in order to eventually formulate new pathways for engineering new superconductors. Below are some examples of recent systematic searches for high temperature superconductors:Searching for new high temperature superconductors based on iron-based high temperature superconductorsOne of the most important developments in superconductivity research in the past decade was the discovery of a new family of high-temperature superconductors: the iron-based superconductors. For four years starting March 2010, the person who discovered superconductivity in these iron pnictide materials, Hideo Hosono, led a consortium of 6 professors (mostly solid state chemists) in an effort to discover new (hopefully high-Tc) superconductors and engineer useful products out of iron-based superconductors. In the end, this group synthesized ~1000 new compounds, and superconductivity was found in several tens of new compounds. None of them had a high Tc, but they did have success in engineering wires out of iron-based superconductors for applications. This collaboration also emphasized publishing their failures--the compounds which were synthesized but not found to be superconductors--in order for future researchers not to waste time. Overview of project: Science and Technology of Advanced Materials (STAM): Reported successes and failures aid hot pursuit of superconductivityPublished paper: Page on iop.orgHistory of Fe-based superconductors and their Tc. Source: A collaboration of researchers in Japan report on four years of extensive research into superconductivity, including the materials that were found not to have superconducting properties, as well as those that were, and their potential for wires and devices. | JSAP BULLETIN | The Japan Society of Applied PhysicsSearching for high temperature superconductivity in hydridesRoom-temperature superconductivity has been predicted in metallic atomic hydrogen (which can only be achieved at very high pressures and has never been made in a lab) back in the 1960s. Based on this prediction, together with an understanding of what causes conventional superconductivity in metals, a group in a Max Planck Institute has searched for many years for superconductivity in hydrogen-rich gases which have been metallized under high pressure (albeit not as high of a pressure as is needed to metalize atomic hydrogen). They had a modicum of success when they achieved superconductivity in pressurized silane (SH4), but their big breakthrough came in the past year when they created a superconductor with a Tc of 203K by subjecting hydrogen sulfide (H2S) to very high pressure. This is the highest transition temperature achieved in any material ever. Although this search was based on known physics, the predicted Tc of H2s was only 80K, so this high Tc was a discovery and a breakthrough indeed.Brief description of the science: Inna Vishik's answer to What is the mechanism of sulphur hydride's high-temperature superconductivity?Original paper: Page on nature.comFree version: [1506.08190] Conventional superconductivity at 203 K at high pressuresH2S was compressed in a diamond anvil cell to make a high temperature superconductor. Image source: This New Superconductivity Research StinksSearching for new and high temperature superconductors at interfaces between two materialsThe first two methods for searching for superconductivity--playing with materials chemistry and applying pressure--are fairly 'traditional' methods. A different approach is to create novel physics at the interface of two materials. One well-known system where this has worked is the interface between lanthanum aluminate and strontium titanate (LAO/STO), where superconductivity has been discovered at 300 mK, even though both starting materials are semiconductors (review paper: Emergent phenomena at oxide interfaces). While this is not a high Tc by any stretch, this work brought this approach to a wider audience. More recently, researchers have found that a single unit cell of FeSe grown on STO has a Tc which far exceeds the Tc of FeSe as a bulk crystal (see: High-temperature superconductivity at the FeSe/SrTiO${}_{3}$ interface...I think this is the first report, but not 100% sure). The origin of this high Tc is still a topic of research and has been connected to charge transfer at the interface, interfacial strain, and interfacial electron-phonon coupling. This system is also a highlight of the approach of searching for high temperature superconductivity at interfaces.More info: Page on bnl.govMonolayer of FeSe on STO (right). Source: http://www.Nature Publishing Group : science journals, jobs, and information/articles/srep10011