 I get very excited for Nobel week every year, probably because this is a form of celebrity gossip which is socially acceptable among my cohorts. At the same time, it is pretty clear to anyone who does science thatmany important developments never receive a Nobel prizemany deserving scientists never receive a Nobel prize either because of politics or because of the limits on the number of people who can share onemany scientists (knowingly, eagerly) work on problems which are interesting and fundable but almost certainly won't yield a Nobel prizeNone of these points negate the value of big science prizes in general, but they do highlight the reasons that other research prizes exist and are considered very prestigious by practicing scientists. In physics, the names of a few such prizes can be found here. These prizes are chosen by a jury of knowledgeable scientists (like the Nobel, and unlike some billionaire funded 'contests' which have emerged recently), and many of them honor contributions to a given subfield over a long period of time, rather than a singular discovery, which may be a better metric of a scientific productivity.As for the article in the question details, I disagree with some of its points, maybe because I am a physicist, not a biologist.Prizes tend to honor serendipitous discoveries. Serendipity plays a role in all of science, from the high school teacher who inspired one's initial interest, to the university/lab they decided to join in their PhD, to the procedure that they randomly decided to do on tuesday which led them to discover the effect that they published in their paper. Thus, I don't see the merit of discounting serendipity. That being said, Nobel prizes span the full spectrum between accident and billion-dollar-deliberation. For example, the 1987 Nobel prize in physics (high temperature superconductivity) was for a serendipitious discovery (though the recipients might argue otherwise), but you do not put 50,000 tons of ultra-pure water a half mile underground (Super-Kamiokande, part of the 2015 Nobel prize in physics) just to see if maybe something happens.Prizes de-emphasize replication and incremental progress. These ills are the faults of the funding agencies, not the prizes."The prize industry contributes to a deeper problem in scientific research: We throw resources at a privileged few who have already achieved enormous fame." If we are talking about the Nobel prize specifically, this is a ridiculous claim because there are so few Nobel laureates--maybe a hundred living ones per general research field (Chemistry, biology, physics), out of thousands of PIs in those fields. Moreover, a good portion of these receive a Nobel prize after they retire (see: Christopher VanLang's answer to How long do Nobel Prize discoverers need to wait to earn their Nobel Prize?), and many recipients become less active in research after being honored. Nobel laureates do help institutions attract better students, but this effect is secondary to the reputation of the institution itself. It is true that resources and funding are disproportionately provided to scientists who already have plenty, and this phenomenon is becoming much worse with the increased role of private philanthropy in funding research, but it is unlikely that prizes (especially not the Nobel) are a strong driver.