 There have been ~8 years in which the Nobel Prizes in Physics has been awarded for breakthroughs in superconductivity and closely related phenomena. Not to mention the many awards for experimental and theoretical techniques which are crucial for studying superconducting materials. Additionally, high temperature superconductivity is one of the most important unsolved problems in condensed matter physics (though not the only one; condensed matter is not defined by a singular problem, which makes it such a vibrant field). Still, many condensed matter physicists (including Nobel laureates) do not believe that there will be a Nobel prize awarded for a theoretical explanation of the mechanism of high temperature superconductivity*. Why is this?Seemingly every theorist thinks that they solved it already, with some data supporting their explanation and other data refuting it.It is debatable if there is a Nobel-worthy breakthrough to be had there. For instance, if the mechanism is just a different 'pairing glue' (e.g. spin fluctuations instead of phonons), BCS theory already permits this.There might be a Nobel prize to be had related to other aspects of high-temperature superconducting materials, such as strong electron correlations.So why do people continue to study high temperature superconductors? First of all, most scientists are not driven by dreams of winning a Nobel prize. When they start working on a difficult problem, they have no idea if their solution will work, and if they do find a solution, there is often no way to know if their insight is important, because that is predicated on how it influences the field in the future. That is to say, if you write 'winning a Nobel prize'** as a goal on your statement of purpose for graduate school admissions, the committee will assume you are a lunatic and toss your application in the trash. People work on high temperature sueprconductivity because it is a special problem in condensed matter physics which has enough richness of research problems and materials to sustain decades of activity--there is a lot of new physics to be learned***. In the relatively short time I have been an active researcher, I have seen other materials systems (and small sub-topics in high-Tc too) get discovered, become trendy, and get resolved all in a matter of a few years. Meanwhile, high-Tc perseveres as a source of deep research questions and field-specific research prizes.*High temperature superconductivity in research-speak refers to two specific materials systems: cuprate high temperature superconductors (which superconduct above liquid nitrogen temperature) and iron-based superconductors (which superconduct below liquid nitrogen temperature, but above 30K). The highest superconducting transition temperature ever is in H2S under high pressure (203K). This is not discussed in the context of high-Tc because 1) it was discovered last year and our language has already been solidified 2) it's mechanism is understood (it is a conventional BCS superconductor).**If winning a Nobel prize is really your goal, then condensed matter physics is a great field to be in, because there are an infinite number of potential research questions with new ones being invented all the time.***Another such system is VO2, which features an insulator-metal transition near room temperature which people have struggled to explain. Ed Caruthers studied this in his PhD decades ago, and people are still making discoveries worthy of high-impact publications to this day.