 Yes, secondary electrons can be photoemitted if a photon has excess energy. The higher the photon energy, the more probable this is. Photoemission of secondary electrons happens via a multi-step process, not by having two electrons absorb part of the photon's energy simultaneously.Photoemission due to the photoelectric effect is described via the 'three step model.'An electron in an occupied band absorbs a photon and gets excited into an unoccupied state. At this point, the work function of the material has not entered into the picture yet.source: Page on springer.comThe electron travels to the surface of the material. It is during this process that it can scatter with other electrons and impart some of its energy. The electron escapes from the surface of the sample and loses energy corresponding to the material's work functionThe possibility of producing another photoelectron can happen either in step 1 or step 2:Step 1: if the photon has high enough energy, it can excite an electron from deep below the Fermi level ('core states'), leaving behind a hole. If the hole is filled by a lower energy electron (close to the Fermi level), this process will produce another photon which can photoemit another electron. This is the principle behind auger electron spectroscopyStep 2: the energized electron can collide with other electrons as it travels to the surface and impart some of its energy. If this energy is enough to exceed the work function and the second electron manages to make it to the surface, it can also be photoemitted. If the photon energy, and hence the first electron's kinetic energy, is very large, such a scattering event can happen multiple times and possibly lead to the photoemission of more than two electrons. This process, together with auger processes described above are utilized in photoemission electron microscopyFor more details on photoemission, see Inna Vishik's answer to Are the valence electrons of metal responsible for the photoelectric phenomenon?