 with an understanding of what causes conventional superconductivity in metals, a group in a Max Planck Institute has searched for many years for superconductivity in hydrogen-rich gases which have been metallized under high pressure (albeit not as high of a pressure as is needed to metalize atomic hydrogen). They had a modicum of success when they achieved superconductivity in pressurized silane (SH4), but their big breakthrough came in the past year when they created a superconductor with a Tc of 203K by subjecting hydrogen sulfide (H2S) to very high pressure. This is the highest transition temperature achieved in any material ever. Although this search was based on known physics, the predicted Tc of H2s was only 80K, so this high Tc was a discovery and a breakthrough indeed.Brief description of the science: Inna Vishik's answer to What is the mechanism of sulphur hydride's high-temperature superconductivity?Original paper: Page on nature.comFree version: [1506.08190] Conventional superconductivity at 203 K at high pressuresH2S was compressed in a diamond anvil cell to make a high temperature superconductor. Image source: This New Superconductivity Research StinksSearching for new and high temperature superconductors at interfaces between two materialsThe first two methods for searching for superconductivity--playing with materials chemistry and applying pressure--are fairly 'traditional' methods. A different approach is to create novel physics at the interface of two materials. One well-known system where this has worked is the interface between lanthanum aluminate and strontium titanate (LAO/STO), where superconductivity has been discovered at 300 mK, even though both starting materials are semiconductors (review paper: Emergent phenomena at oxide interfaces). While this is not a high Tc by any stretch, this work brought this approach to a wider audience. More recently, researchers have found that a single unit cell of FeSe grown on STO has a Tc which far exceeds the Tc of FeSe as a bulk crystal (see: High-temperature superconductivity at the FeSe/SrTiO${}_{3}$ interface...I think this is the first report, but not 100% sure). The origin of this high Tc is still a topic of research and has been connected to charge transfer at the interface, interfacial strain, and interfacial electron-phonon coupling. This system is also a highlight of the approach of searching for high temperature superconductivity at interfaces.More info: Page on bnl.govMonolayer of FeSe on STO (right). Source: http://www.Nature Publishing Group : science journals, jobs, and information/articles/srep10011