 As Jess H. Brewer correctly pointed out, researchers primarily use liquid helium to cool down high temperature superconductors, though applications of these materials strive to operate with much cheaper liquid nitrogen. There are a number of reasons that researchers use liquid helium:Many high temperature superconductors (e.g. all Fe-based HTS materials and several important cuprate HTS materials) have transition temperatures below the boiling point of liquid nitrogen. Physicists have different standards than normal people as to what constitutes high temperature.Some experiments strive to measure ground state properties, and some experiments would suffer from unacceptable noise/broadening if they were conducted at liquid nitrogen temperatures. See: Zhun-Yong Ong's answer to Physics: Why do scientists crave to reach the absolute zero?Many experiments use cryostats designed to be operated with liquid helium (to study those materials which don't do anything above liquid nitrogen temperature), and it is often non-trivial to operate these machines with a different cryogen.So how much liquid helium do researchers use to study high-Tc? This is highly variable. As I discussed at the end of this answer, there are two general types of cryostats (excluding mechanical cryocoolers): a bath cryostat where the sample is in thermal contact with a bath of liquid helium (surrounded by a vacuum jacket and a liquid nitrogen jacket; so if an experiment uses a bath cryostat, it will require liquid nitrogen, perhaps 100L per week of cold operation) and a flow cryostat where the sample is in contact with cold helium gas. In all cases, the experimental setup has a lower temperature limit, and the sample is in thermal contact with a heater to raise it's temperature above this lower limit if needed. The amount of helium that an apparatus uses depends on several factors including: The quality of thermal insulation from the environmentThe thermal mass of the object one needs to cool downIs optical access required? At very low temperature, radiation is a big source of heating, so experiments which have a port to admit light will require more helium and will have a higher base temperature.The operation temperature and cooling procedure of the specific experimentTo throw some numbers out there, I have primarily worked with flow cryostats in experiments that required optical access, and one helium dewar (100 L) lasted 3-7 days at base temperature (5-10K). These numbers are not necessarily applicable to any arbitrary experiment, because of the factors listed above. However, it should be noted that helium is a non-renewable resource on earth (and it is completely asinine to mine He-4 in space), so most labs try to conserve as much helium as they can. The best way to do this is to re-compress and re-use helium, and many labs/institutions are installing helium liquifiers (which typically use a bit of liquid nitrogen to condense impurities in the helium) to address the scarcity of this singularly important research tool.