 Sort of. Electrons in a metal undergo fluctuations which are mathematically similar to Brownian motion.There are several models to describe electrons in a metal. The simplest model is the Drude model, which treats electrons like a gas of classical particles which collide with each other leading to resistivity. Of course, electrons are quantum mechanical objects, and the next level of 'rigor' treats delocalized electrons as waves labeled by their momentum state. Further corrections introduce interactions between electrons and the ion lattice and electrons and other electrons. Although each successive theory is more 'correct' than the former, each model has some degree of truth and/or usefulness in it. As such, physicists often simultaneously have several descriptions in mind when trying to understand condensed matter phenomena. The entire preceding paragraph is background for the following disclaimer: Brownian motion is a classical phenomenon, but electrons are not classical. Still, there is a phenomenon in metals called JohnsonNyquist noise (sometimes just Johnson noise) which is directly analogous to Brownian motion via the Fluctuation-dissipation theorem (which applies equally to quantum and classical systems). The easiest way to think about Johnson noise is by adopting a classical picture of electrons in a solid (which I will do below), though it can be described quantum mechanically as well.Every resistor (and all real metals show some resistance) has noise at finite temperature which is proportional to the resistance (which itself is a function of temperature) and the temperature--this is Johnson-Nyquist noise. In a classical picture, this arises from an increased number of collisions when ions are moving around more energetically (increased temperature) or when there are more impurities introduced into the metal (higher resistance at the same temperature). The analogy to Brownian motion is that a particle in a fluid will also tend to jostle around more when collisions are more probable: higher temperature and higher mobility of the particle. This analogy isn't just handwaving, it arises from the fluctuation dissipation theorem, which states that thermal fluctuations of a physical variable are directly related to impedance (dissipation) of the same variable. Stated in another way, viscous drag of a particle through a fluid arises from the same phenomenon which causes it to jostle when there is no external force applied: discrete collisions with fluid molecules. Similarly, the scattering events that an electron encounters as it traverses a metal under an applied voltage are the same scattering events it encounters in the absence of a voltage. The difference is that electrons are quantum mechanical, but this is one of the beautiful things about physics: sometimes you encounter very different systems which are described by the same mathematics.