 It depends. The more you know about your superconductor, the more hard limits can be placed.If you are thinking of a specific material which becomes superconducting by a certain mechanism, then the theoretical limit can be quite modest. For example, if one considers specific materials whose superconductivity is described by Bardeed-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory, one can theoretically tune the parameters which are favorable to superconductivity--high density of electron states at the Fermi level and high electron-phonon coupling--within physical limits to ascertain what is the theoretical limit for this material. This sort of analysis was done by McMillan in 1968, and the maximum possible Tc was found to be 40K for specific superconductors that were known back then [1]. This paper has often become victim to a convoluted game of telephone where people got the idea that BCS superconductors could not have a Tc above 40K, which isn't the case.If you are thinking of a specific mechanism of superconductivity (lets stick with BCS since that is the only mechanism supported by a plurality of experiments on materials it claims to describe), you can place limits on Tc based on the elements which exist on the periodic table. One factor which is favorable for BCS superconductivity is atoms which can vibrate very fast, which tends to be lighter elements. The lightest atom is hydrogen, but the problem is that it does not have high density of electron states at the Fermi level because it is not a metal. This can be mitigated by pressurizing the crap out of it. Metallic H under high pressure is expected to become superconducting at approximately room temperature (300-350K) [2][3], so this is the theoretical upper limit for BCS theory. Metallic atomic hydrogen has never been achieved in the lab, but recently, researchers have been able to subject a compound containing a lot of hydrogen--H2S--to very high pressure in order to achieve the highest experimental Tc ever--203K [4]If you are thinking of a specific material or class of materials for which the mechanism of superconductivity is unknown, assessing a highest possible Tc can be quite tricky. An example of such a class of materials is the cuprate high temperature superconductors for which the highest Tc was measured to be 164K under high pressure (133K under ambient pressure) [5]. In this case, the approach one could take to put a theoretical limit on Tc is to pick a mechanism among those that have been suggested and consider the factors that have been empirically shown to raise Tc in cuprates. Some of these factors are charge carrier concentration (doping), the apical oxygen height, the magnetic exchange energy J, and disorder. If any of these factors play into a given proposed theory, one can answer how much a given variable can raise Tc within a given proposed theory which might or might not be the correct one.If someone is completely agnostic about the material and the mechanism of superconductivity--perhaps thinking about materials which have not been discovered yet--it is very difficult to put an upper limit on Tc. If we have learned anything about superconductivity in the 58 years after BCS theory explained the mechanism for one class off superconductors, we have learned that superconductivity is a very common ground state for materials to assume. Many materials have been discovered which would not have been predicted to be superconductors by BCS theory, so there are likely multiple pathways for achieving superconductivity, just like there are multiple ways to make a magnet. With material and mechanism space wide open, a much higher Tc is possible. If we were to set an absolute upper limit, a good inspiration is neutron stars, which are widely believed to exhibit superfluidity (of neutrons) and superconductivity (of protons) with transition temperatures of one billion Kelvin [6].[1] W. L. McMillan, Physical Review 167 p331 (1968)[2] N. W. Ashcroft, Physical Review Letters, 21 p1748 (1968)[3] J. M. McMahon et al, Rev. Mod. Phys., 84 1607 (2012)[4] A. P. Drozdov et al, Nature, 525 p73 (2015)[5] L. Gao et al, Phys. Rev. B 50, 4260(R) (1994)[6] S. K. Lander, Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 071101 (2013)