 One major impediment to expansionism for Indian tourism industry is lack of women's safety. And I'm not speaking of "few female tourists raped by some bad/uneducated apples". Other factors affecting tourism are poor sanitation conditions, as well as simply how overwhelming India is. I'll elaborate from my personal experiences of traveling with Canadian/French/American/German friends of both genders across India, as well as knowing lots of friends in US who have visited India and heard their experiences.Women's safety: Although faced by all races, specifically for white women the harassment faced can be extreme. In my personal travel experience, it spanned from photo requests every minute, clicking photos without permission, passing derogatory comments, following on the streets, being surrounded by disproportionately high males in private spaces, constant attempts to touch, actually groping, being harassed by police suspecting the girl to be a prostitute. The list goes on and on. And this is mainly metropolitan cities like Delhi. The notion of Westerners being promiscuous, open about sex combined with judgment call of it being slutty for women reflects itself constantly for a female traveler in India. As a result, walking on the streets even in broad daylight can be pretty distressing. When they go back, you know- they discuss experiences adding caution. Even I've warned few white female friends to not visit India while young. The media gave this international attention after Delhi Gang Rape Case, but the condition was like this from much before. Sexual harassment in India: 'The story you never wanted to hear'One of those girls who opened up with her horror stories publicly. Overwhelming: Now, this is for everyone- men, women, white, black especially from first world. India is a country where for a person used to peaceful environments their peace of mind is completely disrupted- all the five senses become hyper-alert. Visually, it's overwhelming as in all directions there are people, shops, colors, food stalls on the streets, extreme traffic. Audibly all of these are making noise (we are pretty noisy in public), vehicles honkering, the pestering boy on the street selling goods shouting and as explained before, the sense of touch becomes alert because there is so much pushing, and lots of people are trying to touch you (with good/bad intentions). Lots of this may not be bad in itself (colorful shops, for example)-- but the combination of all these put together for someone from peaceful environments increases stress levels. This backfires especially for tourists inspired by Indian spirituality coming to find peace here. Despite this, I've recommended many non-Indian male friends to visit India as this is part of the excitement (and if it gets too stressful, there's always Dharmashala). A crowded Indian marketHygiene problems: Even though most of the friends I traveled with were eventually getting reckless with experimenting Indian street food because it's delicious, one particular French friend of mine was cautious and eating only from restaurants, drinking bottled water. However this did not save her from getting terribly upset stomach and having to go to hospital. Delhi Belly is for real. Streets in India are extremely dirty, and same with the water we drink and food we eat. It maybe way more tastier, but foreigners have a hard time adjusting to the quality of sanitation in India. However there's significant hope for tourism to be revived due to the following reasons: Soft power: India has immense soft power from Russia, China to US. Yoga is extremely cool in the West, same with our delicious food as well as the melodramatic Bollywood industry which for some reason excites people across the globe. We're popular as the nation of "peaceful Gandhi". Sanskrit/Hindi words find usage a lot in English. Despite it's negative reputation with filth and women rights India enjoys a great soft power infiltration making it more significant in people's mind.Hippy love: In the coop I lived in, out of my 25 housemates 4 had lived in India for more than 3 months, 3 others were taking lessons in Sanskrit/Hindi and were good enough at speaking it (all Americans). India finds a love affair with many Western hippy-esque people as the land of mysticism, history, culture and spirituality. Indian classical music delights them and the stink of toilets is not enough of a deterrent for these folks to bagpack around India. Beatles' sojourn in India created a new generation of India-loving hippiesCheap: India is too cheap and foreigners just love it. Even though they're charged differentially for entry into tourist sites, it is really an insignificant amount in dollars (although for non Western Europeans/Americans it can be a pain). The availability of hotel rooms for Rs 500 ($ 8) even in touristy cities like Goa, Jaisalmer makes it a really attractive way to spend for someone who's saved up and doesn't want to be out of cash in a week or two. Even though a hotel revolution providing them with better amenities might attract certain tourists, for thrifty tourists India can be paradise.Therefore Indian tourism faces some major hurdles, some of which can be resolved by the government, but the rest will take efforts by the society at large. But rest assured, India has a potential as a huge tourist destination given it's soft-cultural penetration. As Jairam Ramesh initially quoted and NaMo reiterated we need "toilets first, temples later". The temples can get lots of tourists, but the lack of toilets can turn away more tourists than that for sure.