 Some things to know before discussing methods. First of all, H1B is a non-immigrant visa meaning one's status on the visa is "legal non-resident alien". Another thing is H1B's are really tight these days. There's been various proposals to increase the cap, but neither party has it as a priority item on agenda so even after getting a H1B sponsor, there are chances of rejection by visa lottery system which happens in April. Having said that, these are some of the common methods to immigrate from India to SV:If you're a college student currently, majoring in CS (or math) from one of the premier institutions (IITs, BITS, IIIT) some of the best companies will come to your campus placements. If you're really good, they will hire you to their US offices. Study a lot of CS concepts: DS, algos, interview questions and excel the interviews. If you aren't from a premier institution but still majoring in CS (or related), get on to one of the websites like topcoder, HackerRank. Then start coding. This will require months to years of hard-work. When your score reaches high levels, you catch attention of potential employers who might give interview offers. Get selected through process. Get into India offices of one of the good tech companies. It's by no means trivial, but lack of visa requirements will tilt things more in your favor given experience with good projects. If you perform really well, they can send you to offices in US. After working for > 1 year, you can even go on L-1, which doesn't require lotteries.One of the most widely followed route- get admitted into Master's degree in US. Preferably CS/math/electrical since you asked Silicon Valley. Most people don't get scholarships or make to MIT/Princeton. Don't worry, go for it. F-1 visa provides flexible options to work as a RA in the university, and lots of people earn just enough to live efficiently. It's much easier to get placed to Valley with a US degree, a part of which is flexibility given by OPT period (which Obama is supposedly increasing), evading rigid cap of H1B lotteries and physical proximity over India for handling logistics. Lastly, a very common route. Take job in one of the IT consulting firms, or do any development work at your day-job in India for a few years. Companies like Infosys, TCS, Wipro send few of their employees every year at their US/UK offices to fill in roles. Alternately after few years of experience (3-5) post your resume on Dice.com. Lots of body shops hang around on that website, and offer "contract positions". Their target market is OPT-candidates as well as Indian employees with few years IT experience on some platforms who are desperate to come to US. Most of them won't be in Valley. However once you've entered US on a H1B, it's much easier to get a H1B transfer than going through lottery from India. These are the most commonly used methods for getting a H1B. I definitely am not a fan of the last one, as it's one of the reasons visa reforms in big tech are stalled, plus they consume 80% of the visa applications every year leading to lots of rejections for others, but I am just providing the methods to immigrate- I'll leave the judgement to the reader.