 Nothing exists in a vacuum. In the aftermath of Attack on French Magazine Charlie Hebdo, I'd take an occasion to explain rise and fall of Islam and relevance it holds in contemporary Islamic terrorism.TL; DR Islam is a civilization in decline, albeit a great one in the past, and its adherents have a tough identity crisis to deal with in the face its continuous decline. Not knowing where to look for a sense of identity and hope, they are often susceptible to fundamentalism and the belief that they can regain past glory.This question is asked by many people every day, and the answers on both sides are often either No true Scotsman saying "only some Muslims do it" while others point out "even if not all Muslims are terrorists, all terrorists seem to be Muslim". My aim here is to bridge understanding between the groups, do justice to the topic and analyze future possibilities. Historic ContextAfter its start in 632 AD, within the span of few centuries Islam had grown to engulf vast spans of area not just in the Middle East but even in Spain, Sicily and France. In few later centuries, this influence would extend to Indian subcontinent and even farther east to countries like Indonesia. They would also spread south to African countries like Algeria, Tunisia, Sudan (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hor...) etc. In short, Islam at its peak was a huge empire. But contrary to the popular imagery of a sword-wielding religion, it wasn't just warfare Islam excelled in. During the Islamic Golden Age Baghdad (and Crdoba, Andalusia) literally became the center of scientific, cultural and economic flourishing. The ideas brought forth were revolutionary for their time. India and China led civilization till about 700 AD, European countries starting with Dutch, Italian from 1500's culminating with mighty British Empire in 1800's, and currently it's USA. But the long period in between 800 AD- 1400 AD Islamic civilization was at the heart of developments in all fields. Its decline began in the early 12th century with the Mongol invasions by Genghis Khan (he was a Tengrist not a Muslim). Christian Crusades "won back" Spain and Sicily causing a blow to the centers of learning. The process intensified with Ottoman Empire's invasion of most Arab states, but the Ottoman's acceptance of Islam just shifted the center of power to Constantinople. Meanwhile the Mughal Empire was mighty in India during 15th-17th century, thus keeping few powers afloat. All this undoubtedly created a strong sense of Islamic identity for the adherents, based on it's glory. But the decline continued with the growth of European powers, proselytizing by Christianity and colonization of vast areas of land erstwhile held under Islamic rule until the 17th century. What this meant was a strong opposition to accepting the ways of the conqueror and thus Islamic identity continued to develop as a negation of Western thoughts and ideas. And so at the beginning of 20th century, there were attempts at Pan-Islamism to unite Islam across the world under the Ottoman Caliphate (or Khalifa). Except that the Ottoman Empire got dragged into World War I allied with Germany and Austria, the Central Powers, and they lost. The saving grace was the formation of Turkey which they thought would be new seat of pan-Islamism (Khilafat Movement). Apart from that were left the less powerful Balkan and Middle Eastern states which were just created. Things took a U-turn when Mustafa Kemal Atatrk banned Islam, focused on secularism (Kemalism). And thus Islamic identity, which had grown as negation of Western powers was under serious threat in the newly disintegrated states with no real political power. The fragile new Islamic identity would trigger several movements such as Pakistan Movement, leading to Islamic states being formed around the world. And just when Islam was trying to reconstruct a new identity Cold War began when horse-trading was high, and both the USA and the USSR would basically align with anyone, depose anyone based on power-politics. The most notable events from this period regarding this were 1953 Iranian coup d'tat, the subsequent Iranian Revolution (1979), IranIraq War: foreign involvement and incidents like shooting down of civilian airline Iran Air Flight 655 by US Navy missile cruiser and of course the mess that was Soviet invasion of Afghanistan leading to the creation of US-supported Mujahideen. This immediate involvement in wars and coups not only stopped enhancement of fragmented Muslim identity, but further strained it's perception of Christian and Western ideologies.Recent history and identity issuesSo why I am telling all this? Because when a high-performing adult plunges into darkness, the only hope it has is to look