 back at its glory days and try to recreate some of it. More so, they will look at their (perceived) nemesis with grudge and hatred, avoiding their path. This is the identity struggle the current Islamic world faces. A past glorious empire, directly in competition with Christian ages got continuously battered. Meanwhile it also got dragged into wars with lots of supplies of ammunition. What this inevitably meant was the creation of a class of people who would seek this identity through violent means, by vengeful acts against the West. And then September 11 attacks (9/11) happened and subsequently Guantanamo Bay detention camp, American invasion in Afghanistan and 2003 invasion of Iraq. This further marginalized the other Muslims, who were now seen with fear and as the other by their Western counterparts. Civilians were being killed by the Western armies thus increasing hatred and a stronger sense of identity as a result of the greater threat it faced. Meanwhile things kept getting muddled in violent cycles such as London bombings, 2004 Madrid train bombings, death threats to Kurt Wustergaard, 2008 Mumbai attacks and now Charlie Hebdo shooting. Given the decline and the constant search for identity, a large section of the Islamic society has found solace in their glorious history. This has led to further radicalization, rigid blasphemy laws and constant attempts to keep the religion afloat. The hatred and Islamophobia justify the necessity for them. The Islamic Revolution created a perfect atmosphere for political opportunism, thus allowing religious tyrants taking charge and creating further mass destruction. To complement this, there are Wahhabist movements under wealthy Saudis who want to promote this rigid version of Islamic identity (Sharia), and Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS) is basically another attempt, albeit a more violent one at creating the Pan-Islamic world. For the insane actors who have been thoroughly convinced of the "injustice of the West", "revenge" the act to jihad seems like a natural call. The Islamic world attempts to condemn them, but nevertheless are also hurt at the further loss of Muslim identity and marginalization thus cocooning into a protective state unaltered by progressive ideas from the rest and becoming radicalized further. What this means in modern times? Does it mean they're justified in killings? Of course not. Does it mean the "average Muslim" is supporting them or identifies with them? No. However what the average Muslim probably shares is disillusionment of the West as well as following rigid religious practices such as believing The Quran to be a holy book from Allah to be followed in word and spirit (pretty similar to Christianity and the Bible, except Christian countries right now dominate the world. Possibly in a few hundred years, Christianity will take Islam's violent place after being marginalized by atheism). The average Muslim also probably shares concern regarding the waning sense of Muslim identity. This inevitably leads to the continuation of cycle of terror and ghettoization. Muslims without education will become ever more gullible to the radical agendas. Another worry iseven though it sounds like an exaggeration Islam faces a real threat of a genocide at least in some part of the world (most likely not state-sponsored, but "state-tolerated". The former will create a huge backlash and unification of Muslims)Unfortunately I don't see much hope for normalization of relations, as given the vast oil reserves in the Middle East (and thus the out-sized political influence it has) and a great location for trade routes and pipelines, the region will remain a center of attention for all world powers, be it US or China. Also until the sensitive IsraeliPalestinian conflict is resolved, Israel's position as US's staunchest ally doesn't help Islamic cause. And given it's violent history with religions like Hinduism and Buddhism, right-wing parties in these countries are on the lookout for opportunities to malign Islam. So negative propaganda against Islam benefits everyone from nations wanting higher stake in oil pricing, energy markets and right-wingers of almost every religion. This is an analysis of the current state of Islamic fundamentalism from a historical context. Of course, this answer also has been trimmed leaving many important events especially in recent history which affected geopolitics of the region a lot. However I've tried to focus on the notion of religion as an identity than just a set of beliefs, and how history plays a role. Anyways if there is a separate question somewhere on how we all commoners should deal with these issues, I will happy to address them within this historical context.