 This Indian is very, very glad about the award for the following reasons: 1) A fellow Indian wins a Nobel prize. Yay!2) India as land of peace: India has been marketing itself as peaceful nation, largely due to Gandhi's peaceful movement. However Gandhi didn't win the prize. No prize was awarded in 1948 citing "there was no suitable living candidate" and the committee said this officially:The greatest omission in our 106 year history is undoubtedly that Mahatma Gandhi never received the Nobel Peace prize. Gandhi could do without the Nobel Peace prize, whether Nobel committee can do without Gandhi is the question- Geir Lundestad, Secretary of Norwegian Nobel Committee (2006)India: land of peaceful activismEven though Dalai Lama's prize was a partial compensation [1], Kailash's prize feels like a closure and an icing on the cake. It's good to see India consolidating itself as a land of peaceful social, political activism.3) Born, raised and citizen of India: Most Indian-born Nobel laureates have done much of their work abroad (except CV Raman/ Tagore), while the ones who did their work in India (D Lama, M Teresa) weren't Indian-born. Kailash on the other hand is born, raised in a small Indian village in MP. His entire work in based in India. An international recognition of this level buries the conviction that Indians can't do anything worthwhile by staying in India.4) Non-controversial/ apolitical: Although some have expressed regret for Satyarthi never being acknowledged by Indian media, on the plus side it means he's completely non-controversial with no detractors, letting us all savor the prize. Other influential Indian activists like Medha Patkar (Narmada Bachao fame) have found lots of support, but also immense criticism from various sections. The choice of someone who has an untarnished reputation (at least for sometime) serves as a good inspiration for others to follow.5) Role Model: This is an extension of the previous points, but seeing a homegrown Indian win international acclaim of the highest order will inspire many others to take up righteous causes. In particular, NGOs in India face shortage of funds, respect, recognition. With Kailash's success, we can expect others to take up the mantle with more confidence. 6) Child abuse as an evil: Fighting for children's rights is very important, and it's essential this evil be exposed to highlight international attention as well as local attention with the governing class, so that Modi can probably tag in children's empowerment alongside programs like Swacch Bharat campaign. After all, his government's entire emphasis is on having a skilled task-force which child labour completely impedes.7) India-Pakistan symbolism: Both countries have had their share of cross border firings and lots of people lose lives on both sides. Some nice symbolisms and gestures like this can drive sanity for sometime.8) A non-controversial Nobel Peace Prize finally: Due to having a political nature, the prize has been a hotbed of controversies with recent controversial picks like Barack Obama, EU and past like Yaseer Arafat, Henry Kissinger. Even though Malala is controversial in the same vein as Liu Xiabao, Kailash's apolitical/ non controversial nature is a much needed respite to the degradation and controversies faced by the prize.My only qualmKailash Satyarthi doesn't seem to have done his graduation from IITs, and thus questions like these still have no counter-examples: Why isn't there a single Nobel laureate on IIT's mantlepiece? or Why IITians are not getting any Nobel prizes? Sigh![1] The Nobel Peace Prize 1989