 This is indeed a very good question, which I've discussed with some of my Chinese programmer friends on multiple occasions. The question isn't really why there are no Chinese tech executives, but rather why there aren't Chinese tech executives in America. After all, Jack Ma (Alibaba) and the founders of Baidu, QQ, Weibo etc. are all powerful Chinese tech executives in China. So even though Jerry Yang (founder, Yahoo!) is a notable exception, it's true Indians have way more top-level prominent executives in US (Vic Gundotra, Vinod Khosla, Padmasree Warrior, Shantanu Narayen, Indra Nooyi, Vikram Pandit, Nikesh Arora) despite similar representation among programmer population.English: Whether you like the fact or not, when one is running boardroom meetings everyday, speaking to tons of customers etc language proficiency becomes very important. It's no secret that China has been reluctant and slow with picking up English, while India hasalmost embraced English as the lingua franca of the nation. This vastly affects promotions of Chinese developers in upper-management positions or as face of a company. Returning to China: Too many Chinese developers return to China to create value back home. The reasons although partly cultural and patriotic also make sense from an economic standpoint - due to the protectionist policies (banning Google, FB for long) it's easier to be bring local alternatives into the market without competition from giants. The same isn't true for India. If one wants to create a local alternative there, one will face immense competition from the giants (eg. Flipkart vs Amazon). Moreover, funding is much easier to raise in Silicon Valley than in Bangalore for completely innovative ideas. Essentially, the best tech-jobs in India are working for Indian offices of Google, MS. So Indians prefer to stick around in US, rise through the ranks thus having a prominent presence in upper management.No role models and fewer MBAs: Even though Nadella and Pichai maybe technically competent, it's unlikely they would have been where they are without their MBA degrees at Booth and Wharton respectively. Chinese people on the other hand don't go for MBA programs in US often, partly because there are fewer role models at upper-management and partly due to English (you need exceptional communication skills in English to be admitted into one of these schools). As a result, this becomes a further motivator to return to China (see 2).However it's noteworthy that Chinese immigrants from second (or later) generations are at much more ease with English, don't want to go back to China necessarily so they're doing a good job at upper-management (Yishan Wong, CEO Reddit) and even academia (Terrence Tao, Andrew Ng etc). The above reasons are also why there are significantly more Americans in upper-management in America than Indians/Chinese despite almost equal (or more) developers from latter countries.