 We would see the relevance of patriotism, but you would have to help me by assuming yourself to be the head of society- a noble person valuing economic progress and development as chief aims. Slowly you'd agree to dispose of religion, caste but not patriotism. Let's see why.You've the responsibility of taking the society ahead. What you don't want at any cost is anarchy. A society will slid into anarchy if either of these two don't hold: Lack of moral codes (political anarchy)Lack of an aligned direction towards development (economic anarchy)While the former is clear, the latter needs explanation. We'll come to it.In order to avoid the former- you preach some morals, create some taboos ensuring rather than loafing around & stealing other's share of the pie, people actually get to work. Meanwhile you want to maximize output from the people's efforts. So you apply some elementary concepts from physics (yes, it's not useless after all). Seeing these efforts as waves, you're appalled at the results: If they're not aligned, all their efforts can nullify each other and you've economic anarchy. However you've some hope on studying the results of perfect alignment. So your aim is to align these individual efforts. For that, you must establish trust amongst them. The first step would be moral codes:"Don't steal from thou neighbor". Nevertheless some don't take this to heart committing acts detrimental to establishing this trust. So what would you do when moral preaching fails? You make these codes stronger by incorporating punishments. To facilitate this you exploit the mysteries of the universe, attribute them to an omnipotent character and call it 'God'. Now this God with all it's power can punish. With the newly introduced fear of going to 'hell' more people start following these moral codes. However few skeptics won't find this God compelling enough to act in the 'desired' manner. So now- you've been tested to the extremes. Apart from trust within themselves, their trust in you is also essential. Therefore you intentionally kept away from exercising power. But with no choice left, you create tangible punishments for not following God's orders. Now everyone takes you seriously & gets to work. So you managed the regulations part. Unfortunately it doesn't end here. You got everybody to work- but still you've to provide the direction. This is where you need to bring in incentives. Alas! For the primitive human mind fear works better than desire for lollipops. In other words, the regulations part is much easier than incentives. So what do you do now? Hold your breath friends, for here we introduce our masterstroke: You invent something called a 'nation'. Tell them they all belong to the same nation- talk of brotherhood. Unite them by a common identity. Lo behold! People got emotional & started working in the same direction. But the story doesn't end here- slight twist. Just as few didn't take 'God' seriously, few don't buy this nation argument. Unfortunately you've to resort to the same method as before- fear. You tell them if they deviate from sticking together & working in an aligned manner, some other similar entities ('nations') would threaten them. Many more believe, but some still remain. Where are these other nations they ask? What do you tell them? Drumroll! For masterstrokes don't end so easily: You compromise! With another intelligent person who understands all this & tell him to 'invent an ideology' to distribute subjects between yourselves thus creating a 'sense of threat' by citing each other's name. So you both battle it out on a public platform in a heated manner, convincing half of them to move either way. On the positive side you've lesser people to manage, on the negative side you've lesser manpower. But the best part is- all people in your 'nation' work in similar direction. You constantly deploy the rhetoric of how the other guy would 'attack' if people deviate. To hold on to people's trust, you actually feign a few skirmishes. But despite these few tid-bits you've achieved what you set out for- avoiding anarchy & rather maximizing collective output. All's well, that ends well. But the ending remains. To ensure moral conduct, you needed religion. This alone was not sufficient. You needed enforcing punishments. For this you need to retain the central authority allowing you to punish. Either you become 'human representative' of the God or simply use the authority as 'head of nation' to punish deviants. With time you realize the former raises questions as more people refuse to accept concept 'God's messenger' for punishment. On the other hand the rhetoric of nation citing threats gives you credible central authority to impose the punishments. Slowly more people question various aspects of your stories- religion, nation. So you've the task to decide which to let go of to retain trust of people. And here you realize- you can afford to dilute religion, but the nation is far more important (the power of religion is a part of the power of nation). By all means, you hold on to nation to avoid anarchy & effective implementation of regulations & incentives. Retaining the trust in nation often requires investments- invention of more threats, some actual threats (as relations deteriorate) but you're ready to walk the extra mile to ensure anarchy doesn't break loose within your territory.Where did race, caste come from? Inventing those 'ideologies' for creating more nations required fomenting divisions. It started with tapping natural differences such as color/race, gender and moved on to artificial ones like castes.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Now enter reality: Religious head though powerful has always been less powerful than the state which controlled economic means as well as legislation. It was always more acceptable to let go of the concepts of religion & other things since they're making it easier for the nation rhetoric (overuse of the same 'nation' rhetoric will turn off people). So the governments go to great lengths to preserve & instill patriotism- championing history, culture and fostering unity through even sports. So it's not in the best interests of society to let go of patriotism and people in power therefore ensure it's "a widely celebrated form of identity affirmation".Should you question patriotism like other constructs? By all means, Yes. The problem is obviously in the assumption of the head of society who wants only societal progress. Reality is not so idealistic. But before questioning do remember the uses of these constructs and how they have evolved over time.Note: Some have an issue that I haven't addressed whether we should question these norms or not. The question asks for why things are as they are, and it's essential we understand social construction of these norms to understand status quo.