 The word which is the source of controversy here is "intelligent men". The question justifies the word with: "intelligent men hold more credentials, so their view matters". However if the question were "do many men think men are biologically superior to women in terms of rationality" the answer can be probably a yes. But here's the problem- the ones dismissing the lack of intellect and rationality in women can themselves be lacking in the same qualities so much. Indeed rationality is a rare trait in humans of both genders. And it's easy to see other's irrationality while failing to recognize one's own. Why lots of men see women as irrational creatures is because of seeing them as "the other". I have came across too many of my male friends making statements like "you can't reason with a girl. They're emotional creatures." If I try to argue with them on social conditioning and gender roles, they'll start laughing at me. Are these intelligent men? I am not sure if they are unwilling to have rational arguments on their generalizations, they're very rational or intelligent. However they exist in big numbers making themselves heard, but they may or may not be intelligent. Coming to the question of what intelligent men think? I have dealt with many intelligent people of both genders and been amazed by the analysis girls can put through on topics. Most intelligent people- of both genders- agree there are differences in how men and women behave, but it's not an inherent condition but rather there goes centuries of societal conditioning. It has lesser to do with brain differences and more with what their parents and other members of society told them to do while growing up. This includes reasons why females are more emotional, cry more and men are more aggressive, violent. However if you want to hear views of highly qualified men, I will provide you with both sides. Here is what V. S. Naipaul, a Nobel laureate in literature says"women writers were "quite different"..."I read a piece of writing and within a paragraph or two I know whether it is by a woman or not. I think [it is] unequal to me." "It is because of women's sentimentality, the narrow view of the world". "And inevitably for a woman, she is not a complete master of a house, so that comes over in her writing too" .... "My publisher, who was so good as a taster and editor, when she became a writer, lo and behold, it was all this feminine tosh. I don't mean this in any unkind way."Here is what Mahatma Gandhi has to say on the topic: [2]To call woman the weaker sex is a libel; it is mans injustice to woman. If by strength is meant brute strength, then, indeed, is woman less brute than man. If by strength is meant moral power, then woman is immeasurably mans superior. Has she not greater intuition, is she not more self-sacrificing, has she not greater courage? Without her man could not be. If non-violence is the law of our being, the future is with womanThese are the words of Barack Obama: The best judge of whether or not a country is going to develop is how it treats its women. If it's educating its girls, if women have equal rights, that country is going to move forward. But if women are oppressed and abused and illiterate, then they're going to fall behind.So it's neither unheard of for successful men to be condescending of girl's rationality nor unheard of successful and intelligent men upholding their cause. I work in a company founded and run by a woman (Judy Faulkner) and I can't help but notice her rational approach when she speaks. I chose a female professor as supervisor for my Math thesis for she was one of the better faculty members in our department. One of my favorite professors Angelie Multani is a female. I've encountered many rational females to believe in equal capability although if someone argues society has conditioned them to adopt more emotionally-sensitive roles, I wouldn't disagree. However rationality is a rare trait in humans. [2] Gandhi's quotes on women- it's interesting at the least.