 I have been there, done that. I have been on all sides of the fence: respect, disrespect, hatred to reverence and have discussed the topic with many.TL;DR Gandhi seems boring. An old man walking across the nation with a stick and preaching love, non-violence is not cool to a hot-blooded youth. A huge portion of our school literature, history is dedicated to Gandhi. His autobiography, chapters in literature on his Champaran protests to lessons in history about Swaraj, Quit India, Satyagraha. The way the teaching is imparted is not as what Gandhi was- a clever politician who made idealism pragmatic but as a saint who stood by his principles of love and peace. To add to it, teaching methods were dry emphasizing on cramming to maximize marks. What it means is we were exposed to loads about Gandhi but never understood about the practical motives behind his act. We see him on our currency everyday. We read his quotes. But there is confusion on his worthiness for deserving all the attention. This is the phase when youngsters switch from respect to disrespect. If one doesn't read more, it stays here. Neither reverence, nor hatred. Some choose to respect, others disrespect.However if one chooses to read more on the Indian independence movement from works of non-fiction Gandhi's pragmatism shows and the excellence behind it. If one can see through the layers of the man's activities, the respect magnifies a lot. However if one doesn't choose to read, they are exposed to more stuff: Movies on Bhagat Singh: He features in a cameo signing documents sending Bhagat to gallows. No context is shown- Gandhi Irwin Pact, Non-cooperation movement leading to it. Viewers infer Gandhi being responsible for the death of Bhagat Singh. Nathuram Godse's emotional speech: Although it appeals to Hindu sentiments, it finds many takers. Safety Valve Theory: A conspiracy theory alleging him to be a British agent. Subhas Chandra Bose: His failed relationship with the revolutionary who was also instrumental in India's freedom struggle- SC Bose. Also unremitting support for JL Nehru are a reason of criticism. Gandhi's sexual experiments: Ideally it shouldn't affect anyone what he did in his bedroom, but his saintliness falls apart in context of these allegations.The problem is the methods by which the information gets circulated lacks credibility & it's half-baked. For the current generation the medium is online social media like blogs, Twitter of Facebook shares. Based on the amount of efforts an individual is willing to invest to verify their authenticity, the readers accept them at face-value or investigate & see if they can still respect Gandhi. Most aren't diligent enough to take the trouble of investigating credibility.As a net result, the youth which has been exposed to Gandhi-worshipping their entire adolescence discover his "new dimension" and switch to passionately hating him. To worsen things, Congress party- run by Nehru's progeny, having adopted Gandhi's surname- have worsened the connotations associated with the name as it has come to signify dynasty politics. To sum it up, youth has idols easier to associate with in 23-year old martyr Bhagat Singh or Azad Hind leader Subhas Chandra Bose asking for blood in return of freedom, and lots of online publicity of these great leaders has been done as the negation of Gandhi.Also read my answer to Why is Gandhi great?