 Rose: How cold?Jack: Freezing. Maybe a couple degrees over. You ever, uh, you ever been to Wisconsin?Rose: What?Jack: Well, they have some of the coldest winters around. I grew up there, near Chippewa Falls.....Anyway, I, uh, I fell through some thin ice; and I'm telling you, water that cold, like right down there...... it hits you like a thousand knives stabbing you all over your body. You can't breathe. You can't think. At least, not about anything but the pain. Which is why I'm not looking forward to jumping in there after you. - The scene from Titanic when Rose (Kate Winslet (actor)) is about to commit suicide.As Jack wouldn't like jumping into the water due to his Wisconsin chill memories, moving from elsewhere to Wisconsin is like jumping into the icy-river. The cold stabs. Every inch of your face. And when you do have to walk in the open, it does feel like you can't breathe and your existence is centered on thinking about the pain, and how to get out of it.Living in Madison during winters can be extremely depressing. Each decision, every single day regarding social life during winters faces the mental barrier "but it's so cold outside". I should rather just stay inside.The image is not from the internet, but a photo I clicked in front of my apartment. Needless to say, I didn't stay outside more than 10 minutes even while photographing. The temperatures are way below freezing- I don't even see them with windchills because it depresses me more- but during the days it was declared "Polar Vertex" it went down to -30 degrees Celsius (-22 F). And it's very, very windy. Seeing a car skid on the snow while patrol cars helping them isn't an unusual sight. Relying on buses is worse as they get delayed due to the consistent snowfall. However there's no lack of sunshine. But it doesn't matter because the wind is strong enough to counter the pleasant effects of sunshine. It's only a view to be enjoyed from inside. And it starts mid-October to November and goes through March to April.Activities and social life in Madison wintersIn Madison, there are plenty of restaurants of all kinds- Asian, Mexican, Indian, American. The city is not a multicultural hub but 20% of the population are students at UW Madison, which makes it a very tolerant city with lots of international folks. When comparing to San Diego, definitely options will take a hit but in downtown Madison there do exist places for live music, bars, clubs while restaurants are nicely spread all over the city. As for living in the 'burbs- there are Middleton, Verona where rents are way cheaper but the more scenic part is near downtown Madison, due to the presence of Lake Mendota and Lake Monona. However in winter, even the lakes freeze completely making them good for sports but it's again a matter on being able to endure the cold for so long out in the open. Outdoor activities definitely get stagnated in winters, and beauty of snow also loses it's charm in few days when everywhere you see, it's snow.So to summarize life in Madison (or nearby Wisconsin cities) is really tough in the winters especially for someone not used to the terrible chilly winds and winters are a real hindrance to lots of activities you could have done otherwise although at least Madison has opportunities for social activities.