 tragedy in human history?In terms of number of people killed, most probably not. Humans have been killing each other for ages, when entire kingdoms used to wipe out each other in quest for land. However what separates Holocaust from other battles is intent. There was no purpose to the killings, no tangible benefits being reaped. The killings were simply a result of hatred & discrimination. Yet the scale was huge. Millions of defenceless people across genders, ages were killed by another thousands. The "race war" unlike other wars wasn't a means to an end, it was an end itself. The fact that ordinary citizens were willing to do it for no obvious benefits reveals us a very scary side of ourselves. How does it compare to Armenian (and other) Genocide(s)?Probably similar. In the particular case of the Armenian genocide, it's indeed the second most studied genocide behind Holocaust. However if history needed one symbol to reemphasize the lessons, there are some good reasons why Germany should be the one: The fact that they were an industrialized developed nation, with high education, artistic influences in a modernist world is important. In times of current turmoil between developed and developing world, the choice of a white/Christian country rather than a (past) Muslim country is much more helpful so as to serve a constant reminder that the Western civilization has had its flaws and wreaked enough havoc once upon a time.Lastly, the way Germany bounced back from the loss is a symbol in itself. Many countries have done bad to others, but Germany has shown character by admitting to its flaws and making intense efforts to purge itself. Denazification, teaching future generations on the country's dark past and yet bouncing back as one of the largest economies. The character shown by Germany is an excellent symbol in history of learning from mistakes.Godwin's Law of Nazi AnalogiesGodwin's law is often neglected, often overstated. Not every comparison to Hitler is valid, not every comparison is invalid. The temptation to compare random 'villians' to Hitler is too much. Feminazi, grammar-nazi? The phrase "Oh he had lots of followers, so what? Even Hitler had them". The acceptance of Hitler as a moral objective "bad" makes it tempting for people arguing to draw equivalences between their opponent (or their viewpoint) to Nazis thus proving it's wrong. Why is that bad? It kills the symbol. If anything and everything can be compared to Hitler (Nazis) it's not such a bad act after all. Hitler becomes our video game villian, the one we want to throw tomatoes at to vent out. And that's the symbolism getting lost - history functions to preserve the lesson learnt through Hitler rather than making him a pedestrian bad guy to vent our frustrations on. On the other hand, quoting Godwin's Law to trivialize acts which actually rival in seriousness (like Armenian Genocide) is a disservice to the people who were victims of those genocides as well as reduces the credibility of Godwin's Law. So the thing to remember is - each of these historic atrocities has a lesson to teach on what not to repeat. We can take them all seperately without comparing intensities. As for why Hitler is chosen as the absolute symbol of bad, it was because the entire story makes for an excellent (revolting) historical symbol.