 Natural inequality: By natural, I mean an inequality which will exist in any economic system. The root cause for such economic inequality is definitely market dynamics, leading to more rewards for those who possess the precise skills required to manufacture and sell goods which add value to the lives of consumers. Note the usage of the term value to consumers, rather than value to society which are different things and the latter due to being highly subjective doesn't result in a consensus of what it is. So even if we might think a football game adds less social value than growing rice, if a consumer is willing to pay more for the former, the market declares it more valuable. Whichever individual possesses the necessary skills to design, manufacture and market these tools will reap more monetary rewards. Another important factor is the exclusivity of the skill. So let's say we all agree it's important to have dirt cleaned off our streets. Does this mean the janitor will be paid more? Mostly no, because cleaning streets doesn't require expertise in a field and years worth of training. There are many people possessing the necessary skills to complete the task, and thus the price for the skill lowers. This difference in skills becomes the root cause of economic inequality. An effect of this is market agents have no/lesser incentive to design goods for the lower end of economic spectrum, as it won't lead to profitable outcomes thus leading to what we call "rich becoming richer" phenomenon- increasing economic inequality. However this model of course assumes everyone has an equal opportunity.Artificial inequality: Unfortunately it's also possible to create economic inequality. Let's say a robber steals all the goods of a person. We've created economic equality without any market forces. Of course we've government organizations to redress grievances in such cases. However such created economic inequality becomes a major problem when it's institutionalized through a mixture of legal, social and other discrimination. Consider for example, a certain race/ gender/ religion/ caste is discriminated against and it's people considered dumb/ untouchable/ violent etc which leads them to be seen unfavorably. This leads to an irrational behavior where employers would tend to sidestep good employees with skillsets based on these prejudices. Sometimes it's part of a legal framework, other times it's not. Nevertheless the result is created inequality which isn't a direct result of market forces. As another example on a macro-scale, consider one country bombarding/ colonizing another country. The resultant lack of resources among the affected populace creates income inequality within that country, and an inequality between countries. Unfortunately legal redressals of such cases which have systematic discrimination/ plunder are more difficult than for individuals, especially when done across generations. Are the descendants legally accountable for crimes of their ancestors? The discussion inevitably leads to the discussion- do we need to fix income inequality- till what extent and how? In the latter kind of income inequality (created) there's more agreement that it needs to be fixed. Ending discrimination and righting past wrongs requires government intervention mostly, and the subject enters murky terrains of affirmative action. However the issue of whether any intervention if at all is required for the former kind- natural- is more contentious as it's seen as a by-product of a knowledge economy. The advocates of intervention mention the "false" assumption of level-playing field, equal opportunity and rising inequality meaning it being more difficult for relative poor to afford basic services like healthcare and education, which despite requiring expertise on the part of provider are seen as basic human needs. Both sides in such discussions have merits, and the question of where to draw the line in intervention is a challenge for the policy-makers.