 History serves to teach lessons, and in order to attain its purpose history needs symbols. Throughout human history atrocities and wars have occurred, but some stories have been more widely documented because telling them serves as a lesson to the future generations to not repeat similar mistakes. Hitler serves as one such universal symbol of "bad"- becoming an important symbol. How does Hitler serve as a symbol?A maniac whose hatred knew no bounds and who was willing to kill millions for his ideologies? Indeed, but he represents much more. Hitler & Nazis were merely a culmination of many things wrong, which needed fixing in our society. Anti-semitism: Hitler didn't start it. Indeed it dates back centuries, much before Shakespeare created Shylock in Merchant of Venice. Hitler merely became the face of the movement when he decided they were an inferior race and needed to be exterminated.Layman involvement: A disturbing thing about the whole episode is that Hitler didn't become Chancellor via a coup. (He was imprisoned for trying the same in Beer Hall Putsch.) He climbed the democratic leader, got public votes becoming Chancellor in 1933. Although the leadership of SS, Gestapo were comprised of people like Himmler, Goebbels who hated Jews passionately, the bulk of these organizations comprised of everyday folks. People doing their work to earn their living. These citizens of an industrialized, cultured and educated nation - perfectly capable of making sound decisions for themselves - were complicit to mass murder. Mechanical nature of the killings and scale: The killers were neither barbarians on the street, nor was it only the national military. Extermination of Jews was part of government policy. Sophisticated machinery - including gas chambers - was especially developed for the purpose. The process involved the government and citizens of the nation alike. Moreover it was conducted in an extremely mechanical way - unlike soldiers charged to kill their opponents. It wasn't a battle to be won, it was just work to be done. 6 million Jews were killed as a result, but what's baffling is not just the scale of the dead, but also the scale of the killers.Image: SS GuardsSo how didn't the citizens feel a revulsion in carrying executions? What made them justify killings to themselves? What were the benefits they as individuals or Germany as a nation was getting out of eradicating its own peaceful Jewish population? Nazism is a symbol of the power of hatred, propaganda and desperation which can push educated, civilized citizens into not just assenting to, but also participating in exterminating an entire race believing it to be the final solution to their problems. The reasons leading up to Hitler's rise make up for an interesting case study - loss in WW1, Treaty of Versailles, hyperinflation, Great Depression - on reasons which led citizens to justify killings, but in the end they were just immediate causes and none of it would've been possible for the Nazis without the prevalent antisemitism and rampant use of nationalist imagery. All these tragedies in human history are a reflection of dark recesses in ourselves. When do we let our morality submit to fear, hatred and other primal instincts? Holocaust exposed lots of it, making us a self-aware race of what not to repeat. Is it the worst