 I visited Stonehenge twice in a very short period of 15 days. The first time it was a touristy endeavor with 2 of my friends. The latter time it was a spontaneous decision to go there, as I found about Stonehenge summer solstice festival just a day before the event. So I will mention in brief on both- a usual visit, as well as the special occasion of Solstice, which is annual celebration in June around 20th-21st. Visiting as a touristAn important thing worth knowing is you can't touch the stones, or get super close. There are ropes put around it, and visitors are not supposed to cross it. Also you can see the Stonehenge from some distance, and entering beyond it you have to pay (I think it was  7). Given these two things, I felt there wasn't an extreme difference in the experience whether one pays to enter or not. The major difference is you can look at from a little closer, they provide an audio device on which you can listen to the history of the stones and of course you can get some pictures from close-up. What I mean is the Stonehenge in itself failed to overpower me and my friends as visitors, with it's sheer awesomeness. It was marvelous that I was seeing something so historic- stones which have been there for ages, whose origins are disputed- but if I hadn't known this- it could just have been some stones put in awesome formations. It looks exactly as it does in the pics, which is obvious but it lacks the grandeur beyond that. Although that might sound true of many other tourist attractions, it is not true for many as well. For me, Stonehenge belonged to the former category. Especially given there was a restriction on entering. The fact that we had come all the way, and it's history as a wallpaper in Windows machines essentially convinced us to pay the extra bucks to see what we could see from a distance. Summer SolsticeIf I hadn't been here, I'd have been most likely very pleased with my experience as a tourist. However going on the summer solstice is altogether a different marvel. On this day they remove all the ropes, so not just you can come close to the stones, but sit on it, dance on it. Drink sitting on it. Everything. What's more? It's literally a humongous hippy party. People from all over the country assemble there, about 30,000- 50,000 in the whole expanse of the grounds of the Stonehenge, and there is dance, music, booze and even pagan worship. This is a picture from an instance when a girl in the crowds started belly-dancing in the middle of the stones.As I said, it has some pagan roots and is essentially a religious cult. Everyone stays awake till the dawn, for the first signs of sun which is considered holy or something. As a result, you have lots of people dressed in crazy costumes attending the fest with lots of amazing practices.I know I make it sound like the hippy celebration aspect of it was the interesting part and I kind of killed the historic site in drunken boorishness, but really what made it special was a mixture of the ability to come close to the stones as well as the festive environment. The only downside was it rained excessively that night, and given that it's a vast open field there was no shelter and only choice was to get wet.How does it feel to touch the stones?Normal. Yeah, they don't feel like holy stones or something while touching it. They aren't of absurd temperatures as well, as I was suspecting. They feel just like other stones, but the fact that I was in the middle of the historic stones and touching them was great, much more than the feeling of seeing it from a bounded distance. I could even climb few of the stones, and it feels great to be on top of them (the shorter ones, the bigger ones are too tall to climb just like that). Access to StonehengeOne of the things worth knowing is public transportation is very poor near the area. It's a site in the middle of nowhere. When I went in the bus, I had to get down 30-40 minutes walking distance away from the site. (at Amesbury- on a X5 from Oxford) While returning, I took a train from Salisbury but it's like 10-20 minutes by taxi to Salisbury. The worse part is we'd to walk like 2-3 miles in excessive rain to find a taxi. So if you don't have a car (and in UK, that's not as big a surprise as not having one in US) it is going to be kind of hassle, especially in rains (which is almost every second day in UK). All in all, Stonehenge has an exciting history and for that the audio device is worth it (although you can most likely read everything online). Seeing the real stones, circling around it while listening to it's history is fantastic. But if you've very high expectations, there's a good chance you'll end up disappointed. Nevertheless the Summer Solstice festival is an experience of a lifetime and added valuable memories to my time in UK.