 Having featured in an interview with NDTV last year where I'm sure I looked like a fool, speaking things out of context and was clearly agitated later for the miscommunication and distorted agenda on the part of the news channel, (State of affairs of Indian media (my NDTV interview) I'd like to begin with giving the man a benefit of doubt. Were questions available to him? Most probably not. In my case I remember being misled to believe it was on another topic. So I speculate Frankly Speaking informed him the interview would be on the lines of "Role of Rahul Gandhi in transforming Indian politics" since that's what he was reiterating. There's a chance. However despite giving him the benefit of doubt, it's obvious he's not even close to answering most of the questions to the specific levels Arnab requests despite getting his agreement on the same. For instance, when after lots of circumlocution he speaks on the topic of 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 2002 Godhra riots- he tells there was a difference, but dodges Arnab's follow-up questions on Modi being given a clean chit, Congress ministers being convicted. He kept reiterating his words on "due process". Arnab gave him ample opportunity to answer, and didn't behave the way he does. Nevertheless he was quick to pick logical fallacies and inconsistencies. Rahul denies answering so many questions including why corrupt ministers haven't been tried deeming such questions 'superficial'. I won't deny Rahul Gandhi's performance was -for lack of a better word- disappointing. Here are few possibilities explaining the interview:He isn't a good politician. Period. He involves himself with long-term goals, revolutionary ideas such as reforming the party, youth involvement but doesn't concern himself with short-term political strategies. Cool, he maybe doing revolutionary work behind the scenes but the electorate needs instant gratification and symbolisms and he doesn't concern himself with them. Nevertheless he would possibly be a good candidate in judiciary rather than legislature- given his respect for democracy, alongside willingness to implement fresh ideas. The ideas he suggested aren't very different from Arvind Kejriwal's (empowering common man, increasing their stake, RTI), yet he finds no supporters on social media while there would be AAP apologists posting "other side of the story" had AK been the one saying. Because no one cares- the youth has taken it's verdict on the man.Media anchors have their way of twisting the show so as to have the last laugh. Given Arnab Goswami (Journalist)'s demeanor, it was clear he wouldn't let him walk away pleasantly. So a damage-control tactic can possibly be to divulge as less as possible. Every word a prominent politician says is a door to a new controversy. In the current scenario what we have is jokes and memes on his intellect, but possibly if he had spoken more, Arnab could have twisted it putting questions on his credibility. For instance, had he apologized for 1984 riots or accepted Congress role in abetting it, it could have given his political opponents points to use for the remaining campaign. So he chose silence and let his detractors poke fun for his foolishness than something sordid. After all, being stupid is better than being evil in politics. Anyways if you're wondering which side I'm on. When I was in college, I read Vir Sanghvi's articles which spoke convincingly in support of Rahul. So I do believe RG does lots of empowerment behind the scenes, and has transformational ideas for his own party and if it was someone else doing the same, it could have won applause. Nevertheless seeing UPA's consistent failures convinced me they aren't worthy of the vote. Here is my answer to What did the United Progressive Alliance do wrong in its 2 terms? I am inclined towards BJP.Recommended: Dwarkanath's perspective on the interviewIf you are getting this in your feed despite not wanting to, follow the steps mentioned here: Muting topics on Indian politic(ian)s