 Do ask yourself one question before starting journey of a quizzer: Why do you want to start competitive quizzing? Life at college (especially IITs) is hectic. There is lots to do: courses, assignments, projects. Why would you to make it worse by pursuing something demanding extensive reading, surfing and all that? Unlike projects, quizzing even gives no marks. Neither is there much money to be made and fame- forget it! If you're still listening despite this, you must be a curious soul. Quizzing needs curious souls and if you have it: then, becoming a good quizzer is trivial. You need to do nothing. Confused? Ok, if you want I will write an algorithm: Stay curious Attend quizzes (both competitive/ non-competitive) Don't give up <repeat> That's it! Curious to know why it works? Here is the 'proof of correctness': Becoming a good quizmaster is at least as difficult as becoming a good quizzer. Quizzers are a very critical group & leave no stone unturned in ridiculing a bad question. Now- what's a bad question? Generally one requiring memorization.A good question is considered one whose final answer is something even non-quizzers would've heard of- say Gandhi or Obama. Arriving at the correct solution requires intelligent guessing: eliminate alternatives or connect the dots. So the task of quizmaster is to make questions which facilitate the same for good quizzers. Good quizmasters would ensure you become a better quizzer. The caveat: questions often seem long, dry, unworkable. It often gives you 'I-don't-know-anything' moment. That's where the algorithm comes in. Don't give up: on curiosity as well as attendance. Like reading comics? Continue. Like watching movies? Watch more. Like sports? See more. Don't like politics? No need to explore it. Let it remain a fun activity rather than making it resemble coursework. Personal story: In my college (IIT-Delhi) there is a strong MELA (music-entertainment- literature- arts) culture in quizzes with the inherent assumption everyone likes watching movies/ listening to rock music etc. However I rarely see movies/series. As a result I suffered badly unable to clear prelims for a long time. It demotivated me and I quit quizzing for a long time. Nevertheless I kept reading news on my forte- sports. Explored more on it: on whatever interested me. I also used to read novels. Passive references to history, events compelled to explore some more. Indian literature motivated me to read more on India. So when I came back a year later into quizzing arena, I