 One major impediment to expansionism for Indian tourism industry is lack of women's safety. And I'm not speaking of "few female tourists raped by some bad/uneducated apples". Other factors affecting tourism are poor sanitation conditions, as well as simply how overwhelming India is. I'll elaborate from my personal experiences of traveling with Canadian/French/American/German friends of both genders across India, as well as knowing lots of friends in US who have visited India and heard their experiences.Women's safety: Although faced by all races, specifically for white women the harassment faced can be extreme. In my personal travel experience, it spanned from photo requests every minute, clicking photos without permission, passing derogatory comments, following on the streets, being surrounded by disproportionately high males in private spaces, constant attempts to touch, actually groping, being harassed by police suspecting the girl to be a prostitute. The list goes on and on. And this is mainly metropolitan cities like Delhi. The notion of Westerners being promiscuous, open about sex combined with judgment call of it being slutty for women reflects itself constantly for a female traveler in India. As a result, walking on the streets even in broad daylight can be pretty distressing. When they go back, you know- they discuss experiences adding caution. Even I've warned few white female friends to not visit India while young. The media gave this international attention after Delhi Gang Rape Case, but the condition was like this from much before. Sexual harassment in India: 'The story you never wanted to hear'One of those girls who opened up with her horror stories publicly. Overwhelming: Now, this is for everyone- men, women, white, black especially from first world. India is a country where for a person used to peaceful environments their peace of mind is completely disrupted- all the five senses become hyper-alert. Visually, it's overwhelming as in all directions there are people, shops, colors, food stalls on the streets, extreme traffic. Audibly all of these are making noise (we are pretty noisy in public), vehicles honkering, the pestering boy on the street selling goods shouting and as explained before, the sense of touch becomes alert because there is so much pushing, and lots of people are trying to touch you (with good/bad intentions). Lots of this may not be bad in itself (colorful shops, for example)-- but the combination of all these put together for someone from peaceful environments increases stress levels. This backfires especially for tourists inspired by Indian spirituality coming to find peace here. Despite this, I've recommended many non-Indian male friends to visit India as this is part of the excitement (and if it gets too stressful, there's