 Traveling alone in a foreign country is like being in a love-affair relationship. It oscillates between extreme highs and extreme lows, with long-stable periods of in-between often including boredom. Except the relationship is with yourself. Traveling alone is an excellent way to get to know yourself.Before delving into explaining, I'd state my personal experience. I've traveled alone in Netherlands, Belgium, Thailand and UK for about 5 months combined- all of it wasn't travel- and once in Bhutan. The exciting and the scary thing about traveling alone in a foreign country is it's foreignness. This matters much more if you're traveling across cultures. While every detail would catch your attention much more, the lack of company can be easily unnerving. However an important thing worth being stated is much of the excitement of traveling alone in a foreign country comes due to the people there, not just the landscapes, the buildings or the tourist attractions. Indeed if you want to see these things you're much better off with a group. What traveling alone does is it makes us desperate for companions. Which sounds scary, but as a result it offers us the opportunity to interact with people we may never had due to being busy with our own peers. And with meeting new people comes the excitement of getting to know the local culture, traditions and make new friends. Part of the excitement of making new friends is knowing you won't see them again most likely. As a result, you can be as silly and honest as you want without thinking a lot on judgment. Go grab a drink, a meal with a stranger, walk around the city with them with the added bonus of not having to be self-conscious and without peer pressure. The politeness of some strangers while traveling who've often gone out of their way to help has impressed me, and knowing locals is a good way to challenge one's preconceived notions about the world. Pros: As I said, there would be no friends to "distract". All your attention would be on outside things. You'd in a real sense exploring the place. Easy to follow your heart. Let's say you hear some interesting sounds. You keep following the source. There isn't anyone in your group contesting the decision. There will be lots of moments like these. When you're alone, you're on the lookout. All your senses are hyper-alert, because you need to combat your loneliness. Thus you'll discover lots of new things about the place and culture if you're alone than you're with others. Also many times it's a huge relief not having to argue on why the place you choose is better than what someone else in the group has to say.Picture: Random noises like these and