 realizing the great infrastructure, public facilities. Some examples are vehicle-driving (though nowhere as crazy as India) was way wackier than West. In Koh Phangan, before handing me the motorkbike for rent I wasn't asked at all for driving license although the guy kept my passport. Even in Goa, they ask for licenses. Of course, this lawlessness is apart from the street hawkers, hookers and everything related to prostitution which goes on.7-Eleven's: There are so many of them in every nook and corner of the country (I went to) that when asked for directions, they serve as landmarks. "Take a left, you'll see a 7-Eleven. Keep walking straight, you will see another. Turn right from there". So on. Obsession with white: Before going to Thailand, I didn't know their skin-color has a tan. However there are TV's with intense melodrama being played a lot, and all the characters are extremely fair. One (Thai) girl I met lamented her darker skin, but was happy she was dating a white guy (British). So I learnt this trend isn't exclusive to India.Conservatism vs liberalism: I know this can be different amongst Thais vs what is allowed for foreigners, but the overall idea is Thais show perfect respect for whatever foreigners do amongst themselves even if it may not agree with their traditional values. I know this is how it's supposed to be, but even in Goa it's not so easy to find peace for traveling as a Western tourist (at the least expect photo-ops).Con artists: Tuk-tuk drivers were expert con-artists, with lots of experience with ripping off tourists. Worse, they seem to have a network with stores, hotels, tourist sites, prostitutes and everything possible so when they're giving you very cheap rates someone else in the network is ripping you off big-time. Coming from India, this shouldn't shock me except I did get duped by one guy who duped me into paying 1500 baht for some Buddhist temples, which were less than 200 baht. There is expertise in the con-artist market there.Backpacker heaven: I knew I'd meet lots of backpackers, but the sheer volume of them was unexpected. I met so many from so many different countries, who have stayed there for years and love it so much at least for Western tourists Thailand seems pretty close to the backpacker's heaven on this earth. There is just so much to do-- including all kinds of adventure sports, beach activities, snorkelling, scuba-diving.Pic: Jet-ski with a British friend I met in PattayaExpensive: For a Westerner, it's definitely very cheap. 1 USD= 30 baht, so basically you get meals for $ 2-3 bahts easily. There are many hotels in Khao San Road around 300-400 baht range. So it adds to my point on backpacking heaven. However if I had to calculate my expenses as someone earning in INR, it could be bewildering for the prices are the same in baht as in rupees in India, except 1 baht = 2 INR.Cuisine: In US, Thai is my favorite cuisine. And yet, it was sort of difficult to find authentic Thai food in the cities except for Pad Thai. After searching hard for local markets, they indeed serve amazing delicacies with spicy sea-food. Amazing Red Curry, Tom Yum Sam, Massaman Curry, pork liver. Street food was amazing. Except...Bubble tea: It's my favorite drink, and going to SE Asia I was expecting lots of bubble tea places except I didn't find any (cc:Elynn Lee). This was one of the unexpected disappointments.Military intervention: With so many tourists all having a fun-time, one wouldn't expect a military role in government. But the military had got entire island of Koh Phangan shut down all it's moon parties, including Half Moon Party while I was there following murder of some British tourists. In general I figured military does have a lot of power.Beautiful Buddhist buildings: Ok, there is nothing surprising about it so that's why this is at the bottom as a compulsory addition. I expected amazing Buddhist architecture, found it. There are floating markets as well, with lots of temples on the sides. Overall it's beautiful. What did surprise me however was the numerous Hindu temples.Pic: Beautiful Buddhist buildings clicked from Wat Arun