 I'd tweak the question a bit without destroying the sense. While growing up & in college, I'd always been intrigued by the thought of being able to work for Google/ Microsoft (I changed FB to MS-- Google,FB,MS, Amazon anyways comprise the "top 4" for software devs from top colleges). The reasons I give might differ from an American perspective, since I don't have experience of growing up in US. Also I'd provide with reasons why people are obsessed about working for these companies than actually the reasons people choose to work for them. Mostly the super-amazing developers who have multitude of options move-on pretty quickly from dying to work at Google/FB/MS and look towards startups for great learning capability, amazing peers. So I'll focus on other mere mortals like me and David Frye who are amused by the idea of working there from long before. Of course it goes without saying the great advertised perks, the consistent ability to make lists of "best places to work for" [1] lists and great compensation are reasons. Add to it, these companies are known for treating their tech employees with great respect--keeping them away from interference with MBAs, lesser non-sensical rules (dress code, timing rules) and it adds up to the aura. There, I said it- the reason which makes people go gaga over working for them. The aura. But of course, why Google and MS have this aura? For me, the answer is because I have grown up with Google and Microsoft.  While growing up, I remember Microsoft brought me exposure to computers and tons of software (Office, Media Player, Encarta, IE etc) while Google made me comfortable wading through the internet. And it didn't end there- these companies kept going crazy competing and making more awesome stuff, with better browsers, chat/ messengers, email, maps, blogger. Even my first bits of "programming" was fiddling with MS-DOS and (MS) VB6. Even though there were many instances of Blue Screen of Death, hard-disk crashes; overall impact Windows had on my life was way more, as well as my inclination to experiment with tools like PPT creating animations with sports, cartoons. Irrespective of whether the companies continued to innovate after that, at about age 17/18 the charm with them was deeply sealed along with the fascination "what would be it like to work for these amazing guys?" at a time when I could thankfully make the choice of choosing math + CS major. Google's amazing acquisitions including YouTube, Android as well as amazing products [2] including Nexus, Google Earth, driverless cars kept my fascination while MS (though slowing down and losing "coolness" to Apple) continued to make Xbox, Bing as well as great enterprise stuff such as SQL Server/Azure [3] along with acquisitions like Skype and Nokia (the other company which caught my fascination in those years, but they're hardware--which was too difficult for my small brain).So these things when combined did add up to validation as David says, but the desire to work for them largely follows an association with them. While other companies have to hard-sell to me what innovations they're making, Google/MS needed no introduction. I knew they're making impact (being a witness to their impact myself), and needed no stats to verify this. And as I said, being founded by hardcore tech guys rather than "sales/design guys wanting a tech co-founder", they enjoy a positive reputation among tech-geeks, who dislike management interference. For American kids, I guess Microsoft was old-school by early 2000's itself and they've grown with Facebook dominating their social lives. (I know many Indian friends working at FB, but few have been obsessed about it from long back) I guess many people in the next 5-10 years will be indeed obsessed with working for FB as well as Apple for the same reasons I mentioned, of associating with the companies. So all in all, along with the obvious reasons of money, security, perks, brand name on resume, career growth it also includes associating with them and wanting to give back to the companies which helped change our lives for the positive. Of course as I said, this doesn't mean they are indeed the best companies to work for in terms of satisfaction, career growth, individual impact, bureaucracy, perks etc (although even in worst case, they're pretty good in all the metrics). Those things vary for every individual, and can be rationalized. But the obsession as asked in the question isn't a very rational feeling and that's why most people would jump at a job-offer from these companies (as a developer at least) irrespective of whether it will be the "best work" in terms of learning or even long-term monetary maximization.Ending on a positive note, I finally have been able to fulfill my obsession. I started as a software developer for Microsoft (at HQ) two weeks ago for Excel team - one of it's finest products in my opinion. And of course, the code has enough legacy, there is process overhead as you'd expect in a giant organization but a part of me has been fulfilled by just being able to be a part of the history of organization which shaped my childhood. [1] The World's 100 Most Desirable Employers -- latest list[2] List of Google products -- a huge list[3] List of Microsoft software applications -- another huge list