 Meet this man: Morarji Desai, the 4th Prime Minister of India- the first of a non-Congress government as the leader of Janata Party. The only ideology uniting the members of the ruling party was an anti-Indira sentiment. Frustrated by the Emergency, having protested against it and probably incarcerated these revolutionaries meant a new progressive phase in Indian democracy, with no Congress, no corruption. Except he was deposed from within- by a member of his own party Charan Singh who replaced him to be the next Prime Minister. The ruling party had weakened enough that despite the ruthless Emergency his tenure lasted only 6 months, to be replaced by Indira again. There are striking similarities between Janata Party and Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party (and not just in it's name). AAP has invited some prominent personalities from different walks of life united by a common thread: their disgruntlement with the corrupt system, with the ruling Congress party; indeed all the political parties, police- a disillusionment. These people believe together they can change the system, end corruption, bring justice. All is well, except if we bring them into power so early without having established themselves as a homogenous party rather than heterogenous individual units, it will eventually collapse from within or be destabilized easily by opponents. In it's brief cameo in Delhi, the party felt the pressure as Vinod Kumar Binny resigned, alongside the independent MLA. In a platform as large as the centre where there is too much power at offer, the dissent from within can easily multiply. And at the end of the day, we'll be left with a weak government, crippled by Congress again. But all this was considering they came to power. In all likelihood, they won't be the ruling party. So the above analysis becomes moot. Then why wouldn't I vote for AAP? I'd if Congress was the only alternative, but it's not. Neither is BJP the only other party. In all this wrangling, we seem to forget the underdogs- "the others". SP, BSP, TDP, Left etc. Parties which I consider much worse than either BJP or Congress. And if opinion polls are to be believed BJP-led NDA would topple UPA easily with over 200 seats, but won't have as many seats as these "others". So what we're looking at for LS'14 isn't necessarily Congress vs BJP, but a possible BJP vs the others. Including AAP. Thus according to me, it is essential that every anti-Congress vote be polled towards BJP (unless one is both anti-Congress, anti-BJP where one can choose the alternatives including AAP) to consolidate their position rather than split BJP vote-bank from within and put them in the basket of third-front with or without Congress. Some of the possible scenarios as of now are: A government consisting of some of these other parties, with outside support from Congress. The mix may even include AAP. This seems very unlikely given current news, but a third front without Congress and BJP. May or may not include AAP. BJP-led coalition. However with Modi as it's face, BJP would find tough to find allies thus probably choosing another guy for the top role. Can be Rajnath Singh himself probably. NDA, with outside support from some regional partiesSo essentially in the coalition formation, even though AAP won't do much with the few seats it wins, it will be in a position to decide which of the above scenarios occur. Personally I dislike both 1 and 2 a lot, and why I wouldn't like a non-Modi led BJP-led coalition is because- 1) this coalition will face policy paralysis like UPA-II as well; 2) Modi has a good development track record, other leaders don't; 3) some of these other leaders are closer to RSS. Unless one is strictly anti-BJP and considers them worse than Congress as well as third-front, the best polling strategy is to vote for BJP. By 2019 however my opinion on voting for AAP may change given their track record in states, how much they can work as a team. Believe it or not. One of the main strengths of the Congress and why it gets re-elected is due to minimal infighting as a result of the dynastical structure where top posts are chosen by them. Stability is attractive for the central government. If you're getting this in your feed, but think you shouldn't try following the advice given here: Muting topics on Indian politic(ian)s