 I'd tweak the question a bit without destroying the sense. While growing up & in college, I'd always been intrigued by the thought of being able to work for Google/ Microsoft (I changed FB to MS-- Google,FB,MS, Amazon anyways comprise the "top 4" for software devs from top colleges). The reasons I give might differ from an American perspective, since I don't have experience of growing up in US. Also I'd provide with reasons why people are obsessed about working for these companies than actually the reasons people choose to work for them. Mostly the super-amazing developers who have multitude of options move-on pretty quickly from dying to work at Google/FB/MS and look towards startups for great learning capability, amazing peers. So I'll focus on other mere mortals like me and David Frye who are amused by the idea of working there from long before. Of course it goes without saying the great advertised perks, the consistent ability to make lists of "best places to work for" [1] lists and great compensation are reasons. Add to it, these companies are known for treating their tech employees with great respect--keeping them away from interference with MBAs, lesser non-sensical rules (dress code, timing rules) and it adds up to the aura. There, I said it- the reason which makes people go gaga over working for them. The aura. But of course, why Google and MS have this aura? For me, the answer is because I have grown up with Google and Microsoft.  While growing up, I remember Microsoft brought me exposure to computers and tons of software (Office, Media Player, Encarta, IE etc) while Google made me comfortable wading through the internet. And it didn't end there- these companies kept going crazy competing and making more awesome stuff, with better browsers, chat/ messengers, email, maps, blogger. Even my first bits of "programming" was fiddling with MS-DOS and (MS) VB6. Even though there were many instances of Blue Screen of Death, hard-disk crashes; overall impact Windows had on my life was way more, as well as my inclination to experiment with tools like PPT creating animations with sports, cartoons. Irrespective of whether the companies continued to innovate after that, at about age 17/18 the charm with them was deeply sealed along with the fascination "what would be it like to work for these amazing guys?" at a time when I could thankfully make the choice of choosing math + CS major. Google's amazing acquisitions including YouTube, Android as well as amazing products [2] including Nexus, Google Earth, driverless cars kept my fascination while MS (though slowing down and losing "coolness" to Apple) continued to make