 It was 24th November, 2002.I was 12 years old and Triya was 10. Our parents had gone shopping/ buying groceries a few miles away while we'd refused to come along since we were watching Harry Potter. So while Harry and Voldemort battled it out, I realized smoke filling the bathroom in front of us. Initially it didn't seem very important as we reasoned it to be hot water fumes from the geyser. However when few moments later fumes kept increasing I decided to go and check the bedroom on the other side of the bathroom. Wow, and that was a scary sight. This other bedroom had a small adjoining area (like a closet but much bigger), where we used to store a lot of stuff. Books, clothes, shelf in addition to walking space. Guess what? Fire had engulfed this entire area. And it was flaming strong. What do you expect a 12-year old to do at this stage? Panic, of course. I started shouting to call Triya (as if it mattered). She came and we panicked together. Without much ideas, I started pouring water on the fire. In various installations-- size of small mugs (because we were too small to carry buckets). One of us called our parents quickly, and they stopped whatever they're doing and rushed home. It must have been a crazy drive for Dad knowing the house is on fire. Anyways it took them some time. Meanwhile I rushed to our landlords- who stayed on the ground floor (we lived on the first floor). Thankfully the father in the house ran to us, while the son went to other neighbors to gather a crowd to help while calling the fire brigade. They instructed us to stop pouring water as a short-circuit would backfire and make things worse. We all saw the fire consuming the stuff slowly, as others tried their innovative tactics to quell the fire- sand, cloth. What did it feel like? Panic, fear, dread. A fear which transformed from seeing things you value being burnt down to realizing you may not be alive anymore. A feeling of helplessness with the realization we could do nothing alone to stop the fire from engulfing us. Continuous prayers to God (no theism debates, please). In the end after half an hour to an hour of fighting fire, the situation was brought under control with the help of our parents, neighbors and fire brigade. We were all alive although lots of our stuff was burnt down. I am not entirely sure of what followed as I wasn't old enough to handle the finances, but I guess there were insurance claims filed. Minor blame games continued for days between landlord, tenants and insurance folks on the cause of fire, and to this day the cause hasn't been established with certainty. There was a constant sense of fear amongst us after that. Looking back I think of what could have been: what if we'd also went along for shopping, what if we'd responded later, what if fire was stronger, what if pouring water had backfired-- there are so-many what ifs which could have changed our lives for much worse. But in the end, those what-ifs didn't happen. I am alive, so is Triya. And I'm thankful to everyone who saved our lives for that. We could've cursed our fate for the fire in the first place, but rather thankfully we focused on the positive side. As the Hindi saying goes: jaan bachi to laakho paaye (lives saved are worth more than millions).