 Chetan Bhagat's success is not an exception, it's almost a part of the rule. We ask as if he's a rare person whose horrible work by standards of the art-form he practices has elevated him to success. Let's turn our heads elsewhere for a moment- Bollywood. The two most commercially successful actors are Akshay Kumar & Salman Khan. I can spend an entire lifetime trying to decipher some meaning in their movies, but won't be able to. Yet they are idolized 'stars'. Music? The infamous Honey Singh- after rape protests- who used to be darling of so many. Awful lyrics demeaning women alongside painful beats. Media? Times of India beats every other with their inclination to gossip. The literary equivalent of these trends is Chetan Bhagat. Moreover it's not exclusive to India. We have Stephenie Meyer (Twlight), Justin Bieber. The good news is- they're popular in their own times but fade away across generations- as we wouldn't advocate them to read CB or listen to Honey. Now let's analyze how does trash climb to success? In one word: populism. The common thread running across Salman's antics, Honey Singh's 'melody' or CB's books are tapping the consumer psyche & standing true to their aspirations. So when people see Akshay Kumar jumping off buildings unscathed & dancing with gorgeous ladies or Salman beating 50 policemen at a time- who wouldn't want that? Or giving the youth who confront sex as a taboo some celebration about it with some 'catchy' beats. Achyut & Rachana have done the ad-hoc analysis of how Chetan Bhagat exploits populism already- writing about sex, IITs, IIMs.However there's a twist in what separates Chetan Bhagat's success from Salman or Honey's. The difference is inherent to the field of literature vs. music/movies- people find going through 400 pages of dry-text much tougher than viewing pictures in motion. As a result, many youngsters never take up literature- but want to: seeing their friends create a mystery around it. Chetan Bhagat introduced an easy way for starters- dumbed down the language, reduced the price, stripped it of thought-provoking content to make reading accessible to masses. And so the youth without having to go through grinding thought processes of Joyce & Dostoyevsky were nevertheless involved in literature- they had found their messiah in Chetan Bhagat. He trended, became a youth icon- the readers found it cool. He addressed another youth aspiration-to be seen reading. The current bashing going on is part of social (de)construction of popularity- undoing cool factor to make it uncool being seen reading him ensuring his fame remains temporary.Also read: Why do some people dislike Indian writer Chetan Bhagat?