 Besides the theory of puppet head and conspiracy theories from blogs & FB (Anon's answer), it would help to investigate another reason why Manmohan Singh was the choice for the top-post after the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty and still remains today despite completing almost 2 terms and being 80+. TL; DR The same silence which draws him criticism is a very powerful weapon. Silence is a strong weapon. By voicing a strong opinion, although one may gain many supporters one also runs into the risk of making enemies. Most leaders at the top have high ambitions which results in differences amongst themselves. Ones projected as candidates for the top-post must have these important characteristics: Capability to win elections Influence with the top members Least enemies within party circles Now how this applies in the context of Congress: Projecting members from Nehru-Gandhi family as PM candidates has been demonstrated as an effective method for winning elections, due to the positive associations in most of India with both Nehru's & Gandhi's names. If someone from the family doesn't go out of their way to make enemies (Indira), they remain default choice for the helm. This leaves determining the next most powerful position. There is no "official" second-most powerful position, but when PM's position was vacated by the family (Sonia stepped down as she didn't enjoy the same support as the family brand due to Italy connection) it suddenly mattered. The decision had the potential of opening the Pandora's Box as entire top-brass would've battled for the helm. To prevent this, the party-structure for Congress is designed such that the family nominates a person themselves. And that's where Manmohan Singh becomes the ideal candidate- has risen among the ranks especially with his success as Finance Minister, but more importantly would've least opposition from other potential candidates. With his golden silence, he hasn't won enemies. (Image: Manmohan understands the above mantra very well. A quest to gain stronger party support by speaking may mean alienating few others.)Although BJP doesn't support dynastical politics, it suffers in leadership issue:Lots of leaders-most notably Modi- have risen among the party ranks with their hardwork. Some- again notably Modi- have demonstrated capability to win elections. However not everyone's persona- again notably Modi- fits with other top-leaders. As a result we have squabbles with Advani, Jaitley, Modi and others battling for the top spot creating friction within the party. Conclusion: Manmohan was chosen rather than others as his name creates least opposition among party circles apart from his good performance, which is an essential component for functioning of a political party in a democracy.