 Treat it as an entertainment movie where 'Murica saves the world yet again and you'll find it an entertaining watch. Like A Day After Tomorrow, Godzilla etc. One where scientists (and ex-pilots) "save humanity from destruction" (get used to this phrase, they'll use it so often it might make your head swirl). Of course destruction of humanity refers to some random American 'burb facing some climatic problems. Don't focus too much on the science part of it: either accuracy or even understanding whatever they're saying. The movie is spilled with intense scientific jargon. If you aren't a scientist, you'll be splitting hairs anyways making sense. If you are a stalwart: you're probably feel like this (Jay Wacker) or this (Robert Frost) or this hilarious review by Dan or Sandy citing observations with scientific inaccuracies baffled at the nonsense. Either way, you'd be splitting hairs at the science, so my advice is to ignore the details and just trust the actors in whatever scientific they say.Also remember beforehand the movie is 3 hours long. It requires endurance for a mediocre movie. The maximum science you need to know is (in Joshua Engel's words from his great review) "some college-dorm-level pseudo-philosophy about how love transcends space and time" said by Anne Hathaway. Which reminds me: if you're one of those who like enduring shit movies due to the beautiful actresses (I've done that before), Anne got a boy-cut so she doesn't look the same as her prior movies. You might still like her, but there are odds you won't (pic pasted so you know beforehand). However, keeping with her role and Jessica Chastain's the movie does pass the Bechdel test comfortably, so you can go to feel empowered (although if that was my aim, I'd prefer watching Frozen).Matthew McConnaughley is an impressive actor, and he performs as nicely as script allows him to. So his acting shouldn't be the biggest of your worries. Also be prepared for some insignificant cameos from some forgotten actors (in Robert Frost's words: "weird American Beauty kid") and some famous stars with planets named after them. Don't try to classify it some genre. It's fine as a drama with all the family emotions. It's a good sci-fi until it all stops making sense. I'd personally classify it as fantasy. The movie is similar to Harry Potter with central ideas like "love beats all", "saving humanity for greater good", some time-turner nonsense cloaked with some scientific sugar-coating of higher dimensions. Enjoy it just like you enjoyed Harry Potter.And most importantly, try forgetting Christopher Nolan has anything to do with the movie. That is gonna affect your perception based on your biases about him, your expectations from him which is most likely the reason for intense polarization. Treat it as another entertainment movie. Don't fool yourself by the reviews which tell you it's got some deep philosophy and forces you to think. Then you're setting yourself up for disappointment. The most philosophy you need is how love is great. Also don't try going too deep into what might seem Nolan's political advocacy-- there is enough self-contradictory stuff throughout the movie. If someone can use the movie as evidence that we need to increase funding for NASA, take action against climate change there's also enough scenes to give evidence that scientists are petty scheming creatures (wrestling on other planets) and don't deserve anything more. So if you've decided to watch Interstellar (I strongly recommend to form independent opinions + fwiw, it brings science into public consciousness), prepare yourself for some great visual effects and seeing American flag on more planets for the next 3 hours of your life. This maybe a treat or a mindfuck depending on your attitude towards it. And yes, please don't rate the movie so highly on IMDB. It's not the 11th best movie of all time. There are even 11 Bollywood movies better than it.