 Traveling alone in a foreign country is like being in a love-affair relationship. It oscillates between extreme highs and extreme lows, with long-stable periods of in-between often including boredom. Except the relationship is with yourself. Traveling alone is an excellent way to get to know yourself.Before delving into explaining, I'd state my personal experience. I've traveled alone in Netherlands, Belgium, Thailand and UK for about 5 months combined- all of it wasn't travel- and once in Bhutan. The exciting and the scary thing about traveling alone in a foreign country is it's foreignness. This matters much more if you're traveling across cultures. While every detail would catch your attention much more, the lack of company can be easily unnerving. However an important thing worth being stated is much of the excitement of traveling alone in a foreign country comes due to the people there, not just the landscapes, the buildings or the tourist attractions. Indeed if you want to see these things you're much better off with a group. What traveling alone does is it makes us desperate for companions. Which sounds scary, but as a result it offers us the opportunity to interact with people we may never had due to being busy with our own peers. And with meeting new people comes the excitement of getting to know the local culture, traditions and make new friends. Part of the excitement of making new friends is knowing you won't see them again most likely. As a result, you can be as silly and honest as you want without thinking a lot on judgment. Go grab a drink, a meal with a stranger, walk around the city with them with the added bonus of not having to be self-conscious and without peer pressure. The politeness of some strangers while traveling who've often gone out of their way to help has impressed me, and knowing locals is a good way to challenge one's preconceived notions about the world. Pros: As I said, there would be no friends to "distract". All your attention would be on outside things. You'd in a real sense exploring the place. Easy to follow your heart. Let's say you hear some interesting sounds. You keep following the source. There isn't anyone in your group contesting the decision. There will be lots of moments like these. When you're alone, you're on the lookout. All your senses are hyper-alert, because you need to combat your loneliness. Thus you'll discover lots of new things about the place and culture if you're alone than you're with others. Also many times it's a huge relief not having to argue on why the place you choose is better than what someone else in the group has to say.Picture: Random noises like these and following them can really lift one's mood. This picture is from Inverness, Scotland.As I said before, meeting new people. An easy way is staying in youth hostels, and interacting with fellow travelers. Other times it becomes possible while clicking pictures for others for instance.Getting lost. As others would have said already, this ends up being amazing. It kills off the predictability. It's like unlearning whatever you know and learning it again your own way. You will discover cheap ways of traveling, even probably hitchhike and end up in lots of adventurous things you wouldn't have thought otherwise. The point is- these will be facilitated by you being alone. For example, hitchhiking- neither will your group think of it as a credible alternative most times nor will riders be willing to give ride to a larger group due to space constraints or otherwise.Picture: Got to play beach volleyball with 'players' in Covent Garden, London (UK) while traveling alone.ConsEconomically it can be a drain lots of times. For instance, if you need to take a cab for some reason. Splitting costs always helps. Similar for paying for hotels and likewise if there's no hostels available.You don't need to click photos everywhere you go, but it doesn't hurt to have one good picture at a place. Seeing these later will bring back refreshing memories. Without a group, it becomes difficult. Lots of places you'll be doing the selfie, before giving up for all the bad pics or if you find fellow travelers, ask them for help. Who knows it may help you bond with them.Image: Poor me attempting a selfie in Thimpu, BhutanThe biggest con is obviously though it is depressing. A lot at times. You see all those couples walking affectionately, groups of friends having fun and your own life seems hopeless. You appreciate architecture, but for how long? The lake is pleasant, the mountains are beautiful but alone it loses it's charm in sometime. This does happen. And is countered only by finding other people. Or groups of people where you can just mix in.I wouldn't advise everyone to go for it. In all fairness, not everyone likes an adventure with lots of depressing moments for learning something in life. To me, traveling alone is a high-risk, high-reward gamble. But if you do want to challenge yourself, and can go outside your comfort zone then especially in another country traveling alone can work wonders. In ways, you would never have anticipated. So if you can't convince friends, go for it alone.You might also like some things about Thailand that foreigners do not believe until they arrive?Bonus: some funny/interesting things that have happened to me while traveling