 Good question, as lots of such trends are a mere result of Bandwagon effect. I will therefore try to provide my own reasons for preferring one type of music (rock) over the other (pop). My expertise on Bieber is low: haven't listened to many of his songs. However when I heard 'Baby' the first time I mistook it for a female's voice before a friend corrected me. That in itself isn't a good enough reason to denounce him, but the music was awful as well and it was unsettling knowing this was a mega-hit. Nevertheless that's it about Bieber: I can speak of similar pop music (Pitbull etc). Composition: Artists like Bieber are primarily vocalists. Someone else writes the song, composes music, plays it- the artist just sings. On the contrary, the Beatles did everything on their own from composing, writing the lyrics to playing instruments. Well, Bieber is alone while they were 4, right? Eric Clapton did it all alone. Music: Most of the pop songs have indistinguishable music- precise same beats. You take out the voice, all are almost the same. No instrumental additions to the flavor of the music. My favorite among the rock/folk genre is Simon & Garfunkel. Paul Simon wrote the songs, played the guitars while Art Garfunkel added his melodious voice resulting in a soothing end-product. The song varies in pitch: the music with intelligent variation on instruments as well as singing without resorting to shrills and shrieks (which many pop singers do). El Condor Pasa by Simon & Garfunkel is a good example of musical variations along with soothing tone:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...The Beatles were amazing when it came to variety of musical instruments. They experimented with the violin, sitar and a lot more than guitars. They reinvented the way music was seen, and the stories associated with the songs make them more relatable. The music in itself is great, but lyrics contain great meanings. For an example of Beatles' usage of guitar riffs, try out the song:I Want You (She's so Heavy) -- Beatles https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Timelessness: Pop music is a depreciating commodity while rock music is an appreciating commodity. Sometimes I do like some of the pop music initially, but repeated exposure (unfortunately it's played a lot publicly) creates repulsion to the point I don't want to hear it at all. In other words, these songs don't stand the test of time. Rock songs, on the other hand, have various layers to "be appreciated". Every time I listen to them, I discover another nuance. For example, psychedelic experience by songs of Beatles and Pink Floyd. Try them with eyes closed, it's different. Try them with alcohol, it's different- effect multiplies. Many songs provide transcendental experience which means they allow me to get completely immersed in the music. In other words, they keep entertaining and mesmerizing even more with time. Universality: A part of it is very exclusive to me. When I'm exposed to pop music for few minutes, my head aches. Not figuratively, literally. I've to block the music from entering my ears to be able to do anything else. Such music for me isn't tolerable while sitting in a room, studying, eating, traveling or most day-to-day activities. The only place where I decide to tolerate them is nightclubs where the purpose is primarily to dance. The non-universality of this genre of music is a huge turnoff for me. On the other hand, I can just listen to music by Beatles, Floyd, S & G almost anywhere and it provides a soothing effect. These songs are not just for the entertainment, there's something to be appreciated. The universal nature of the songs makes me love them more. [Image: where pop music works best]