 I backpacked for a week in Thailand 2 months back, and though that hardly qualifies me I would still try. I visited Bangkok, Pattaya and Ko Pha Ngan. I found Thailand to be among the best countries I've visited. Some surprising things from the nation, which I wasn't expecting:Good infrastructure: As a developing nation, I was expecting the infrastructure to resemble Indian cities. But Bangkok's infrastructure really feels closer to London or NYC's than Delhi's. Even though that maybe an exaggeration, the infrastructure doesn't make it obvious being in a third-world country. Even the under-developed island of Koh Phangan (from an infrastructure perspective) is not that bad. Prostitution is illegal, but...: I'd read before on the legal status of prostitution in Thailand and it stuck me as odd, given the international reputation it has for this. So the question was- how is the law enforced? To my surprise, there is not the slightest trace of brothels so the law has controlled that part. I'm comparing it to Amsterdam's Red Light Districts which is in the city center, every passerby can see it and access (if they wish). However that doesn't mean it's not happening big time- it's just not obvious. There are too many adult entertainment options in Bangkok, Pattaya at least-- namely Go go bar, Ping pong show, Cabaret in strip clubs and so on. And of course, the Thai massage shops. With girls (?) shouting "massage" to passer-bys. I'm not sure how many of these operate as backdoor prostitution but the overall gist is- there is excessive adult entertainment without any legal brothels, although there are many girls standing alone by the beach who you can be sure are doing the same illegally. Pic: Clicked on Walking Street, PattayaLadyboys: Of course I knew about lady-boys, but the unbelievable thing was how many they are. I'm sure they outnumbered the "real girls" in these entertainment districts. Some of them are obviously not female, while for many it's difficult to tell. And lots of them are very humorous. For example, when I said no to his/her offers for "massage" they show me directions to nearest gay bar.Poor English: This one really surprised me. Given how much of the economy is based off tourism, it's surprising so many of the natives can't speak English. What's more surprising- too many in the tourism industry can't speak English. This was one of the main reasons why I didn't interact much with the locals. Excellent public transport: The cities had one of the best public transport options I've seen anywhere in the world. By public, I mean not private. In Bangkok, there is the amazing MRT, BTS and great rail infrastructure. And of course, lots of buses. Apart from that, there are the ubiquitous tuk-tuks (like auto rickshaws just way faster). In Pattaya, I rode shared wagons with fixed rates of 10 baht roaming across the streets day and night. Then there were the ferries for traveling within Bangkok. Inter-city transportation was also amazing. Frequent buses, cheap flights within nation operated by AirAsia, NukAir, Thai Airways. And I also took the over-night train to reach Surat Thani, from where I took a ferry/ship to Koh Phangan. The train was as marvelous as it can get in quality. Excellent partying scene, live music: Although I'd heard lots about it, I was still surprised by the awesomeness of it. The street off Khaosan Road in Bangkok has amazing live music till 1 am on the streets. Same with Walking Street, Pattaya (although that's not it's claim to fame) There is lots of partying going on the streets late into the night. Granted most of it is by the Western tourists, but still the energy on the streets is very welcoming and cheers the moods up. These are of course apart from the different moon parties in Koh Phangan, most famously Full Moon Party. Overall for street partying, I can't imagine a better place than Thailand. Even NYC doesn't match up remotely closely, forget the rest of US (except 6th Street, Austin). Pic: Live music near Khao San Road, BangkokOverall sense of lawlessness: This didn't surprise me at all as I expected it but it was mild surprise after