 Family pressures In many parts of India, family still continues to be the decisive authority in issues relating to marriage. Moreover previous generations are bound to the traditional values of intra-religion, intra-caste marriage. If children began dating amongst themselves amounting to love marriages, the odds that these caste/religion constraints would be satisfied is low. Therefore families ask their children "to focus on their study/work" and not "loaf around with opposite gender" ensuring arrange marriages eventually. A noteworthy thing is boys are advised against dating as much as girls are against it by their parents. Most boys save the girl's contact numbers in their phones under some pseudonyms so that their "family doesn't suspect". If asked by parents, children have to constantly apply rhetoric of "just friends". In essence if a relationship is to be pursued before marriage, in most cases it's shrouded in secrecy from the elder generation until it reaches the blossoming stages of marriage. It doesn't end at family. Our neighbours are pretty loud-mouthed as well. So on being seen by an acquaintance along with a girl, news will definitely reach the family in subtler forms indicating "child is slipping out of control".When through "such sources" news reaches family ears, they realize they must rush & start finding brides/grooms for their child. Unable to fight with their parents, the children have to break-up with their partners thus disappointing the relationship & get married elsewhere. Since relationships before marriage is a new concept India is grappling with, relationships necessarily mean marriage for even the children. If it doesn't amount to the same, the party who got "dumped" feels cheated. Therefore they move into a relationship only when they're assured it will end in marriage. Dating without being in relationship is even more incomprehensible here. So they date when they know it's a relationship (eventually meaning marriage)Social factors These affect the girls more. Suppose a gossip-inclined person reveals a relationship started in secrecy, the girl is likelier to called a slut and shamed. Somehow family reputation gets muddled in all these things and the fact that their daughter was "going out" will leave the family "with no face to show". In case a thriving relationship involving sex breaks eventually before marriage. Both parties would have lost their virginity but it would become a bigger issue for girl as she is less likelier to find a suitor who is above immaterial stuff like virginity. (India: Do you expect your wife to be a virgin? Read wonderful answers & comments to get a balanced picture of societal mentality) If the relationship is made public, society (family, those uncle/aunts) start expecting marriage. If that doesn't happen, lots of slandering follows speaking of the "bad character" of their children- more so for girls. Due to all these factors, children have to be exceedingly cautious while dating for adhering to the family's expectations while avoiding sending 'wrong signals' to the society damaging their family's reputation from nowhere.