 Mac might be great for someone who's never used a computer- for dummies. Getting all that fancy stuff, sexy interface, intuitive UI etc. Mac might also be excellent for high-end users who use their PCs/laptops for lots of fancy stuff. What you've remaining is the large middle-area of the bell-curve: people like me who are neither dummies, nor use it to perform high computational tasks and most importantly have grown up on Windows. Most people who can afford a Mac today (the question's target audience) couldn't at some point in their life, when they were using Windows. Today I can afford Mac, iPhone etc but a year back in college I wouldn't have been able (except by incurring huge debt which I wasn't willing to) which means most of my life I've used primarily Windows. So now that we've established a large section of "people who can afford Macs" grew up on Windows due to cost/ whatever reasons, let's see why we don't migrate to Mac on getting money. The few times I'd to use a Mac I discovered there was a non-trivial learning curve. So essentially in order to start using Macs, I'd have to invest time, energy and (significantly more) money. The incremental benefit I get out of making this switch is not worth it in my opinion. I get a cooler interface, sexier way to navigate, sleek body and possibly an entry into the "Apple users" club. I don't need any of it badly, thanks a lot or there are ways to get it with lesser investment. An important thing to remember is the use cases. As a low-end (or not high-end user), the typical tasks I'd use my machine is for-- browsing the internet, listening to music, occasionally playing games/watching movies. Turns out if I need to do anything apart from this, MS Office mostly has the answer (because I don't do any fancy stuff*). I don't play with RAM/disks, nor understand the specs and very high performance doesn't make a big difference to me for the tasks I do. They run fine enough to get things done. I suspect this is somewhat representative of the typical user from middle of the bell-curve. The only instance personally where I was convinced Windows wasn't fit for the task was when I started using my machine for programming. Did I spend $ 1000 for a Mac? No, I downloaded Linux for free, got a dual OS partition in my cheap Dell and guess what- I get the real Unix, no viruses and I am richer by not spending. There was a learning curve for sure, but the lack of additional money justified the effort combined with the fact it was no more difficult than programming itself. When I needed to play games/ use Office suites (LibreOffice was a pain) I used Windows, else Linux (mainly to stay virus-safe). Eventually I switched back to Windows full-time. So to summarize- I've no pressing need to migrate from my current platforms and when I will, I'll look for the cheapest alternative to get the task done. Just because I earn enough to afford stuff doesn't mean I have to spend it on stuff I don't need.Also a final point worth adding. The feeling of pity Apple users have for others with the question "why would anyone not buy Mac" gives non-Apple users enough reasons to not associate with the brand.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------* MS Office can do lots of fancy stuff, I don't use it for that though