 A man? There is no answer* to this question. It's like asking how long a novel can be before it gets boring? Boring to whom? "Men" is too broad a category. I know men (and women) who think any novel is too long. They only enjoy reading short stories (or they don't enjoy reading at all). I'm a man who feels the opposite way: I rarely read short stories or even novelas. I prefer long books.Some men don't take overtly-sexual women seriously; others do. There's no formula. You have to get to know the individual man and see if your taste for sex gels with his. This is true about pretty much everything when we're talking about billions of people with a large number of tastes, values, and opinions. Personally, I can't imagine judging a woman by how soon she wants to have sex. I might want to have sex sooner or later than she does, but that wouldn't affect my thinking about her as a person. It seems like a pretty insignificant detail to me. If she never wanted to have sex, I probably wouldn't get into a romantic relationship with her; if she wanted to do nothing but have sex--dozens of times a day, every day--I would probably avoid a relationship with her, too, though I still wouldn't judge her, aside from "we're probably not compatible lovers." Between those extremes, I'm pretty adaptable. Some men are more adaptable than me. Some are less so. Sorry, there are no shortcuts when it comes to relationships. Your success will be based on how well you mesh with a particular person. You have to start from scratch with each person you date. My advice is to do whatever comes naturally to you sexually. That will turn off some guys, excite others, and not-matter to still others. The same is true for everything you do. Your occupation will also turn off some and excite others--as will your looks, your sense of humor, etc. Given that, you might as well be you. * Though I agree with Franklin Veaux that "If a man would think you're a 'whore' for having sex too soon, then this is a man who fundamentally does not respect women."