 Well, there are tricky things about it for people who come to it other languages that are very different from Javascript. Javascript is object-oriented, but it uses a different kind of object-orientation than most other popular languages, such as C++, Java, and PHP. If you're used to the more-common form, you'll be confused by the JavaScript way. I actually think JavaScript's approach is simpler (or at least no more difficult) for someone who learns it as his first programming language (or as his first object-oriented programming language), but for JavaScript-as-second-language folks, it can be a brainfuck. The same is true for it's functional aspects. The first language I learned* was LISP, which is a functional language, so the idea of first-class functions, pure functions, and immutability weren't odd or difficult for me when I encountered them in JavaScript. But to someone who has never done functional programming before, there will be a learning curve, especially if he's spent a lot of time coding in non-functional languages. It's relatively easy to learn metric if it's your first measurement system. It's much harder if you've grown up with inches, feet, and pounds. The only truly difficult thing about Javascript, in my opinion, is its relative lack of community standards and standard libraries. There are often ten ways of doing the same thing, and if you ask ten JavaScript developers to tell you the best way, you'll get ten different answers**. This is true for many languages, but there tends to be more agreement--in, say, the Java and Python communities--about best tools and practices. This is all relative. Two Python programmers may well have profound disagreements, but it tends to happen much more often in the Javascript community. This is because JavaScript hasn't been taken seriously for much as-long-as most other popular languages. It's been around for years, but only a few as a language that interested professionals. So the situation is a little like English in Shakespeare's day, before spelling and grammar rules had been standardized. (Shakespeare spelled his own name in several ways!)Practiced JavaScript developers tend to love this flexibility. Ask me how to create instances of objects, and I can show you a whole bunch of different ways. And I love the variety, because I can pick whatever method I think best suits a task, but that's a bit overwhelming for newbies. When I was starting out, I often wanted to scream, "Just tell me the right way to do it!"There's another tricky thing "about" JavaScript. I put scare quotes around "about," because this isn't really a tricky thing about the language itself. The