. [blah blah blah]Someone: I think you're forgetting ... [blah]Me: No. I covered that in my third paragraph. If you go back and read ...Let's say the other person really wanted to win with his first remark. He wanted (or needed) me to say, "Ah, you're right. I did forget about that." He was feeling a little irritated with me from the beginning. Now, the tension is building and I haven't given him a release.Someone: You know, people like you always say ... [blah blah blah]Me: Other people may say that, but I haven't, and I wouldn't, because I don't agree with it. In fact, what I said was ... [blah blah blah]Someone: Uh huh. And I suppose you know everything about the subject, because ...Here, he wants me to respond to his tone. He's hoping that I'll match sarcasm with sarcasm, because he knows that though he may not have the upper hand when it comes to logic, he's really talented at snark. If we get into a snark war, he'll probably win.Me: I can see why you suppose that, but you're wrong. It's true that some people with my view also think [blah], but I don't. My stance is exactly what I wrote, above. That and only that.Someone: Ah! A classic back-peddle. Congratulations. You must be proud of your hypocrisy! Me: When did I back-peddle.Someone: You claimed [blah]. Now you're claiming [blah blah].Me: No. If you read my fourth paragraph, you'll see that I've claimed [blah blah] all along. Where in my post do you see me claiming [blah] or anything like it?Nothing has helped the other guy with his goal of winning. The longer I respond calmly, the more upset he gets. The more upset he gets, the more he needs to win. It's like he came in needing his ego topped up a little, but each further interaction drained his tank a bit more. Now it's almost empty and he's desperate. I won't give him points for logic; I won't play his sarcasm game. Eventually, he'll cut his losses and say ...Someone: You know, I have better things to do that waste my time talking to someone as close-minded as you...He'll feel a little bit better for getting a dig in as the last word. But he'll still have a gaping wound to staunch. I've made it sound as if my behavior caused that wound to worsen, and maybe it did. But in the case of some stalkers, the wound happened years before we ran into each other. I just remind him of whoever originally hurt his feelings. This is often the case with men who stalk women. Each new victim reminds him of some woman (or some group of women) who hurt him--or who he believes hurt him--in the past. You, some new woman, are hurting him just by existing--or by refusing to let him dominate or humiliate you. He's a walking wound, and he's going to keep trying to heal himself by winning. In any case, the guy above may feel he can refill his ego tank by engaging me at other times. Yes, he may have lost the battle, but that doesn't mean he has to lose the war. He'll obsessively pour over my posts, looking for a weak spot. If one weak spot fails to work, he'll try another. He'll keep trying until he wins or totally loses, maybe by being kicked off the site. He'll either do that, in which case I'll have a stalker on my hands, or he'll move on to some other proxy--someone with the same opinions as me (or similar ones) who is more of a pushover. He will keep probing for weaknesses in me and others. His ego is at stake!* There are downsides to strong impulse control. I never seem to have quite as much fun as my super-impulsive friends. I get myself into fewer fights and messes than they do, but their lives are more exciting than mine.