 It's a combination of luck and attitude. I don't want to minimize the luck part. I was lucky in several ways: first, I was one of those nerdy kids who couldn't get a girlfriend. I didn't really date anyone until I was in my mid 20s and I didn't get married until I was almost 30. If you'd called me lucky back when I was a dateless wonder, I would have called you crazy. And had I been more attractive to women, I probably would have gotten married earlier--before I'd been able to handle it. There certainly are folks who married young, made it work, and are still together, but I'm pretty sure my marriage wouldn't have lasted if I'd met my wife before I was 25 or so. Even if I'd met the same women, it probably would have failed. I simply wasn't mature enough back then. I was a mess until was 26 or 27.By the time we met, many aspects of my life had fallen into place. I knew what I wanted to do for a living. I had some skills I was confident about. I'd lived on my own and knew how to pay bills, cook dinner, etc. I was done with my rebellious stage. I was trustworthy. I was hard working. The same was true of my wife--and the same hadn't been true about her a few years earlier, when she was in her early 20s. I wish I could say I was smart enough to wait until I was mature enough for marriage, but that would be a lie. Life made me wait until I was mature enough. I will say, though, that many of the dateless nerds I know--the ones who married relatively late--have had successful marriages for similar reasons. You look at them now and think, "These guys and gals are solid. They knew what they want. They know how to get it. Their youthful egos have melted away. They're kind. They're loyal..." They're marriage material! They probably weren't when they were 22. Think about what's going on in most people's lives when they're in their late teens and early 20s. They're usually in the thralls of a complicated, fraught relationship with their parents; they haven't figured out what they want to do for a living; they have little experience living on their own; they don't yet know where they want to live... Trying to wade through all that and be in a serious relationship at the same time is tough. Another way being older helped: I didn't marry any of those good-looking girls who caught my eye--girls I had nothing in common with except physical attraction. My wife is gorgeous, but it wasn't her face or body that won me over. I got lucky in terms of meeting someone really compatible with me. We have similar values, practically the same sense of humor, similar interests, etc. It took me many years to meet someone like that, and, luckily, the women I met earlier--the ones I wasn't so compatible with--turned me down. I would have settled. The attitude part has to do with a strong belief in marriage. By which I mean two things: (1) I take my marriage vows really seriously. I promised to stay with my wife until death and I meant it. To me, marriage was never about "let's try it out and see what happens." I have never had one foot out the door--not even one toe. And (2) I am willing to do what it takes to make the marriage work. I don't expect it to be easy. I don't take it for granted. I think of my marriage as a creature that needs care and tending. I feed it every day. I look for signs of problems. This is more important than the first point! It's great to feel a sense of commitment, but I really know how to solve--or at least how to begin to solve--some problems. I know how to talk to my partner about problems. I know how to listen. I am willing to compromise. I am willing to seek outside help if necessary. If we had a big problem we couldn't solve, I wouldn't even spend a second "considering" couples therapy. I'd be on the Internet, looking for good therapists. There are hypothetical deal-breakers. If my wife started beating me and refused to stop, I'd leave her. If she continually lied to me, I'd probably leave her, too. But, in general, ending the marriage simply isn't on the table. It's not something I keep in mind as an option. Marital problems are problems to be solved. I think of them the same way I think of food problems. If I was starving, I wouldn't say, "Well, maybe I'll just quit eating..." I'd find food. I'd steal it if I had to! Early on in our marriage, we had a talk about what would happen if one of us had an affair. I said to my wife, "Well, if it was an ongoing thing and you were in love with the other guy, that would be a problem. But if, say, you got drunk and had an 'accident,' I think we'd get past it. I'd be very, very angry. But if you'd be willing to work on fixing the problem, I'd work on it with you." She said she felt the same way. I don't think all marriages should be like that--that they should try to work through anything. But I'm saddened by the number of married folks who work through nothing. They don't see marriage as a thing you work on. They don't consider couples counseling when things go wrong. Sometimes, this is because they don't expect anything to go wrong. When it (inevitably) happens--in what they thought was happily-ever-after--they're totally blindsided. This was another area when marrying older helped. I didn't have those sorts of illusions. I knew long-term relationships take work. Here, I have to return to luck, again. Marriages don't work when only one partner is devoted to solving problems. Luckily, my wife is as devoted to it as I am. She wants the marriage to work; I do, too. (I am probably making it sound like it's this horrible monster we have to tame every day. It's not. We're best friends and we mostly have fun together. But in a 22-year relationship, there are bound to be ups and downs.)We both agree that there's no such thing as "her problem." There's no such thing as "my problem." Even if it's clear that, by some objective measure, only one of us is at fault--e.g. I blow $10,000 of our saving at a casino--we look on it as a problem with the corporation. It's a problem we both have to solve, together. If she blew the $10,000, I'd be furious, and I'd let her know that, but I wouldn't say, "Shape up." I wouldn't make it all about her, even if I'd done nothing to cause the problem. If there's a problem, it's our problem. Here's the final way we got lucky: our parents. My wife's mom and dad, now both gone, were happily married for over 50 years. Mine are still alive and still together. They got married in 1962. Their relationship was rockier than my in-laws' was. When I was 14, they split up for nearly a year. Then, they did a lot of hard work, got back together, and stayed together ever after. So both my wife and I grew up seeing marriage as something lasting. I was traumatized by my parents' split when I was young, but I now see it as really valuable. I watched two grownups work out their problems and stay together. In my experience, many folks whose parents got divorced don't really believe in marriage. They don't believe it can work. They're aways expecting it to fail, and they often push it to failure, so at least they'll have some control over what they see as inevitable. I know marriage can fail. But I also know, from evidence I saw with my own eyes, that it can work! (And if I ever got married again, I would only marry someone else who believed they can work, too.)Here are some behaviors we engage in that are crucial to keeping our marriage afloat and fun: 1. Communicate. Sometimes people complain about how they woke up one day to discover their spouse was a stranger. What that means is that days, weeks, months, years ... went by when they weren't talking--or when they weren't talking about important stuff. People change, but they don't change overnight. The stranger in bed next to you started becoming a stranger two years ago. You didn't know, because you and he didn't talk about it. My wife and I talk about everything. And I mean everything. We talk about feelings of attraction outside the marriage; we talk about our fears; we talk about our irritations; we even talk about our bowel movements. There's no such thing as TMI in our marriage. I guess we give up some mystery, but we gain a ton of intimacy. I've come to realize that it's important that we talk things out immediately. If I suddenly realized I was bisexual and really needed to experience sex with a man, I would be terrified to tell me wife. But I wouldn't put it off until next week (or next month or next year). I would take a deep breath and tell her immediately. Right now. Holding that stuff in for even a short time is toxic. It's going to come out somehow, anyway. Even if I successfully hide part of myself from her, it will come out as anger, nervousness, depression, or stress-based illnesses. It will rot the marriage. Maybe the marriage can't withstand the truth, but it definitely can't withstand lies. So the truth must out. Now! 2. Play together. I don't mean Monopoly or catch. I mean that every day we get into tickle fights, giggle like lunatics, turn household items into puppets, etc. We are totally used to looking absurd around each other. We have no shame. We are totally free to roll around in the mud together. 3. Work on big projects together. We co-run a theatre company. At the moment, it's dormant, and so we're taking sewing classes together. We each have some individual interests that the other one doesn't share, but there's never a day when we don't spend at least some time talking about shared projects. These are fun and interesting things we do together--not household chores we do through gritted teeth. (Though, of course, we do those, too.)I'm saddened by how many couples don't work together--except when they have to. If it turned out that my wife and I had no common interests, we'd invent one. I'd say, "You're not into archery; I'm not either. Let's take an archery class together!" Humans form tight bonds by working on common projects. I sometimes fantasize about being a marriage counselor. People would come to see me and say, "Our problem is that ..." And I'd say, "Shut up! Go into that room and don't come out until you've built a playing-card tower together that touches the ceiling!"4. Ignore everyone else. Our marriage is the most important relationship in our lives. We both feel that way. You know the old puzzler? If the ship was sinking and you could only save your wife or your mother, who would you save? Well, I love my mom, but I'm in a partnership with my wife. She always comes first! If she didn't, there'd be no point to the marriage as far as I'm concerned. My mom wouldn't do this, but if she ever made a mean-spirited comment about my wife--or tried to come between us--I would instantly and definitely put a stop to her. "I love you, mom, but you need to stop saying stuff like that or we won't be seeing each other any more." And this would be a three-strikes-and-you're-out situation. My wife knows this. She knows she comes first with me. I know I come first with her. And no one's opinion of our marriage matters. Someone thinks I could have done better? That's his business. Someone thinks I'm dragging my wife down? That's her business. We didn't get married to impress other people; we didn't get married to rebel; we have nothing to prove. We're simply best friends.