 Many of us hate to lose. Many of us also hate to be in a tie. We only feel good when we win. And what matters, emotionally, is how each person subjectively defined winning. (The amount one hates to lose--and loves to win--is often rooted in early childhood. There may even be a genetic component to it. Which is to say that if someone is trying to beat you, it's probably a continuation of a conflict that's been playing out in his head for years. You are a proxy for daddy, the cool kids in high school, "those people," or whatever. If you can be easily tagged--Christian, atheist, conservative, lesbian, woman, etc--you will attract bullies who feel the need to fight with "them.") So if I've framed an interaction with you as a fight, argument, or competition, I will want to win it. Note that the same conversation might not be competitive as far as you're concerned, but my actions are based on my context, not yours. Even if you've never criticized me, I may be (from my point of view) in a fight with you, because you said something that made me feel stupid. Or you remind me of someone who made me feel stupid. (If I say, "I hate comic books," some folks will hear, "People who like comic books are stupid." So even if you're not trying to belittle anyone, someone may wind up feeling belittled just because you've expressed an opinion. This is more-likely to happen if he's been humiliated in the past.)It really sucks to let that go unaddressed. What stops me from trying to beat you over and over is impulse control. It's the same thing that stops me from drinking too much wine, hitting on lots of women, blowing all my money at the casino, and leaving restaurants without paying. I have instincts to do all those things, but my frontal lobes say, "There will be a price to pay if you do." On Quora, common prices stalkers pay are seeming childish to others, seeming dangerous to others, losing the possibility of friendship with others, not learning from criticism, getting kicked off the site, and feeling guilty. When the "you must win at all costs" voice enters my head, the "don't be a dick" voice follows and usually dominates my consciousness. I'm lucky* in that I have strong impulse control. Some people don't. They and I both have the "you must win" voice. They simply don't have the brakes on it that I do. (Some folks naturally have control, but they browse the web drunk. Alcohol famously blunts our breaks.)I've never purposefully antagonized anyone on Quora. That is, I've never gone into an interaction with that goal. I've certainly said thing I knew would likely upset people, e.g. expressed views on religion, parenting, etc., but never with the goal of upsetting anyone. So I haven't experienced anyone stalking me in retaliation for me constantly badmouthing him.But I have experienced it when I've refused to let another person win. That's most-often what the stalker wants--a win. I'll post something that upsets him, and he'll try to win by using logic or, more often, by making a short, cutting quip. Quips don't affect me, and if I agree with the guy's logic, I'll generally say, "You're right." But if I don't, I won't. Most of what I discuss on Quora is stuff I've been studying for years or even decades. I don't believe I'm infallible, and, in fact, people here have changed my mind about stuff I thought I knew well, but it's not likely to happen via a quick "logical" argument, because over the last 30 years, I've probably heard that argument hundreds of times before. So here's what happens: Me: Our school system is bad because ...