 Many of us hate to lose. Many of us also hate to be in a tie. We only feel good when we win. And what matters, emotionally, is how each person subjectively defined winning. (The amount one hates to lose--and loves to win--is often rooted in early childhood. There may even be a genetic component to it. Which is to say that if someone is trying to beat you, it's probably a continuation of a conflict that's been playing out in his head for years. You are a proxy for daddy, the cool kids in high school, "those people," or whatever. If you can be easily tagged--Christian, atheist, conservative, lesbian, woman, etc--you will attract bullies who feel the need to fight with "them.") So if I've framed an interaction with you as a fight, argument, or competition, I will want to win it. Note that the same conversation might not be competitive as far as you're concerned, but my actions are based on my context, not yours. Even if you've never criticized me, I may be (from my point of view) in a fight with you, because you said something that made me feel stupid. Or you remind me of someone who made me feel stupid. (If I say, "I hate comic books," some folks will hear, "People who like comic books are stupid." So even if you're not trying to belittle anyone, someone may wind up feeling belittled just because you've expressed an opinion. This is more-likely to happen if he's been humiliated in the past.)It really sucks to let that go unaddressed. What stops me from trying to beat you over and over is impulse control. It's the same thing that stops me from drinking too much wine, hitting on lots of women, blowing all my money at the casino, and leaving restaurants without paying. I have instincts to do all those things, but my frontal lobes say, "There will be a price to pay if you do." On Quora, common prices stalkers pay are seeming childish to others, seeming dangerous to others, losing the possibility of friendship with others, not learning from criticism, getting kicked off the site, and feeling guilty. When the "you must win at all costs" voice enters my head, the "don't be a dick" voice follows and usually dominates my consciousness. I'm lucky* in that I have strong impulse control. Some people don't. They and I both have the "you must win" voice. They simply don't have the brakes on it that I do. (Some folks naturally have control, but they browse the web drunk. Alcohol famously blunts our breaks.)I've never purposefully antagonized anyone on Quora. That is, I've never gone into an interaction with that goal. I've certainly said thing I knew would likely upset people, e.g. expressed views on religion, parenting, etc., but never with the goal of upsetting anyone. So I haven't experienced anyone stalking me in retaliation for me constantly badmouthing him.But I have experienced it when I've refused to let another person win. That's most-often what the stalker wants--a win. I'll post something that upsets him, and he'll try to win by using logic or, more often, by making a short, cutting quip. Quips don't affect me, and if I agree with the guy's logic, I'll generally say, "You're right." But if I don't, I won't. Most of what I discuss on Quora is stuff I've been studying for years or even decades. I don't believe I'm infallible, and, in fact, people here have changed my mind about stuff I thought I knew well, but it's not likely to happen via a quick "logical" argument, because over the last 30 years, I've probably heard that argument hundreds of times before. So here's what happens: Me: Our school system is bad because .... [blah blah blah]Someone: I think you're forgetting ... [blah]Me: No. I covered that in my third paragraph. If you go back and read ...Let's say the other person really wanted to win with his first remark. He wanted (or needed) me to say, "Ah, you're right. I did forget about that." He was feeling a little irritated with me from the beginning. Now, the tension is building and I haven't given him a release.Someone: You know, people like you always say ... [blah blah blah]Me: Other people may say that, but I haven't, and I wouldn't, because I don't agree with it. In fact, what I said was ... [blah blah blah]Someone: Uh huh. And I suppose you know everything about the subject, because ...Here, he wants me to respond to his tone. He's hoping that I'll match sarcasm with sarcasm, because he knows that though he may not have the upper hand when it comes to logic, he's really talented at snark. If we get into a snark war, he'll probably win.Me: I can see why you suppose that, but you're wrong. It's true that some people with my view also think [blah], but I don't. My stance is exactly what I wrote, above. That and only that.Someone: Ah! A classic back-peddle. Congratulations. You must be proud of your hypocrisy! Me: When did I back-peddle.Someone: You claimed [blah]. Now you're claiming [blah blah].Me: No. If you read my fourth paragraph, you'll see that I've claimed [blah blah] all along. Where in my post do you see me claiming [blah] or anything like it?Nothing has helped the other guy with his goal of winning. The longer I respond calmly, the more upset he gets. The more upset he gets, the more he needs to win. It's like he came in needing his ego topped up a little, but each further interaction drained his tank a bit more. Now it's almost empty and he's desperate. I won't give him points for logic; I won't play his sarcasm game. Eventually, he'll cut his losses and say ...Someone: You know, I have better things to do that waste my time talking to someone as close-minded as you...He'll feel a little bit better for getting a dig in as the last word. But he'll still have a gaping wound to staunch. I've made it sound as if my behavior caused that wound to worsen, and maybe it did. But in the case of some stalkers, the wound happened years before we ran into each other. I just remind him of whoever originally hurt his feelings. This is often the case with men who stalk women. Each new victim reminds him of some woman (or some group of women) who hurt him--or who he believes hurt him--in the past. You, some new woman, are hurting him just by existing--or by refusing to let him dominate or humiliate you. He's a walking wound, and he's going to keep trying to heal himself by winning. In any case, the guy above may feel he can refill his ego tank by engaging me at other times. Yes, he may have lost the battle, but that doesn't mean he has to lose the war. He'll obsessively pour over my posts, looking for a weak spot. If one weak spot fails to work, he'll try another. He'll keep trying until he wins or totally loses, maybe by being kicked off the site. He'll either do that, in which case I'll have a stalker on my hands, or he'll move on to some other proxy--someone with the same opinions as me (or similar ones) who is more of a pushover. He will keep probing for weaknesses in me and others. His ego is at stake!* There are downsides to strong impulse control. I never seem to have quite as much fun as my super-impulsive friends. I get myself into fewer fights and messes than they do, but their lives are more exciting than mine.