 In my country (and in many other countries), no one is locked into marriage. People (a) choose to get married, and (b) choose to stay married. For an American (German, Swede, etc) to claim he's locked into marriage is a shocking refusal to take responsibility. It's like me claiming I'm forced to work at my high-stress, corporate job. No, I'm not. I am "forced" to work there if I want to have an apartment in New York City and a huge TV. Also, Nature doesn't "advice" us to flirt around. Nature isn't sentient. It gives no advice. Rather, people are born with various impulses. Some of which are counter-balanced by other impulses (instinctual and/or learned). Nature seems to have "advised" me to to steal things. Just last week, I was at a friend's house, and I saw this big wad of cash on his dresser. I had a really strong impulse to take it, and that impulse felt completely natural. Gaining resources adds to my chance of survival and reproduction, and in our society, money is a resource. But I curbed my instinct. Sometimes, when I'm on the subway platform, and it's super crowded and noisy, I have a natural impulse for more space (our ancestors--with whom we share a brain structure--did not evolve in crowded cities, and we're not optimized to live in them), and I felt the urge to push people onto the tracks. I didn't do it. I am not saying it's wise to throttle all our impulses. I'm saying "it's natural" is a weak argument for doing or not doing something. We have natural impulses that are great; we have others that are not-so-great. We have many that are great in some situations and not-so-great in others.There's lots of evidence to suggest that we have (at least) two impulses when it comes to coupling, both of which are equally natural. One is to play the field and the other is to pair bond. There is nothing strange about us having conflicting impulses. Humans and other animals have them all the time. It may be irritating, but we aren't optimized for happiness. Having conflicting impulses is a core trait of our species. Often, conflicting impulses wage a tug of war that creates a kind of stability. Being too loyal might have decreased our ancestors' chances of reproduction; being too promiscuous might have blunted their mating chances, too. Each person--and each couple--finds its own way to cope with conflicting impulses. (Throttling, cheating, fantasizing, divorcing, allowing...) It's not the case that all married couples cease flirting. Nor is it the case that flirting causes disharmony in all marriages. I am not much of a flirt, but that's because I'm introverted in general. My wife is a party girl who flirts with everybody. It's not a problem for her or for me. We've been happily married for 20 years. Some couples go further than we do and have open marriages. (They're more common than it seems, because the people involved tend to keep that aspect of their lives private.)