 I am so glad someone asked this question, as I would have loved to have Quora around when I rushed in 1985. I pledged Alpha Chi Omega, which wasn't among my top choices, but it wasn't too bad. Later I learned it was known as the "smart girl" house, which may give credence to the first fact on the list.You don't necessarily choose the house, the house chooses you: Everything looks generic on the outside, because sorority girls more or less look the same. But the girls will know if your personality, values, study habits and the like "mesh" with the house. You actually might end up happier in a house that is not your first choice. But it's nice to have a choice.First off, evaluate your "package". I am told that girls submit these resumes, which include high school transcripts, extracurricular events and "other" things. What is interesting about you? Did you study abroad for a year? Play varsity golf? Compete in a national science fair? These special things will get you noticed, so play up your interestingness.If you are from out of state, or better yet, a foreign country, that also ups your interestingness. Own it and play it up. Have a streamlined "elevator speech" you can use during the tours phase. "I grew up in Magnolia, I have two younger brothers, I love to play the piano, I love Mexican food but can't stand cilantro." In this phase, you want to be remembered -- in a positive way. (Please make it more interesting than this.)Also, have a little story that has nothing to do with college or rush. Know the unspoken rules. Don't name drop. Don't talk about guys or alcohol/drugs (you can talk about social events, but keep it on the wholesome side.) Don't talk about the rush experience in anything more than the most vague way. Whatever you do, do not critique the sorority's party theme or presentation -- good or bad. (It looks like fun, but it's a slog and a lot of the girls will be operating on little sleep and a lot of overwork).Be yourself. Don't try to fake an outgoing personality if you're quiet, or vice versa. The sorority is looking for all personality types, but chances are, if you come across as fake you won't do that well.Looks-wise, appearance matters, of course. But make sure to stick to clothing, makeup, hair etc. that makes you comfortable. And err on the classy side, even though you may think you look "plain." Pro tip: check out the sororities' websites and Facebook pages, and take your cues from the way the girls dress, wear their hair etc. You want to look like you already belong (and you will; after the first year, but sometimes high school fashion is looked down upon by the more sophisticated "college types.") Think elegant, classy, wholesome, fresh, happy/positive; that's the image you should be striving for during Rush.It's not true that they will judge you on the labels you wear, or how rich your parents are. Seriously, that's not even discussed during Rush Week. Many sororities, in my day, had explicit rules for what you could bring up about a rushee -- to avoid nastiness. They mostly want to make sure you will fit in with the rest of the girls, make the house look good (academically, as in Alpha Chi's case; they recruited a lot of science/engineering/pre-med majors and high GPA was very important; to some sororities, sports and student clubs are a big deal; every sorority will want its share of beauty queens, cheerleaders, Miss So-and-So's etc.), and be active in sorority functions (I suffered during Rush because I made it clear I was going to be living at home and commuting to school; this was seen as a sign that I might not be available for all the activities, and they were right in this.)That's it for now. Please LMK if you have specific questions.