 I am going to tackle this A2A from a male-female perspective. Why, indeed, are obese women much more likely to attain a normal (non-obese) weight than obese men? After all, the deck seems stacked against us. Women naturally have a higher percentage body fat than men, and body fat burns fewer calories -- pound for pound -- than muscleEstrogen is also implicated in weight gainLoss of estrogen, in perimenopause and menopause, lowers the metabolism and also leads to weight gain. And women start gradually losing estrogen around the age of 30, with 51 being the average age of MenopausePregnancy almost always results in some level of post-partum obesity, so many women will spend at least part of their lives obeseWomen are also more likely to be poor (even temporarily), and poverty is strongly correlated with obesityHowever, what women do have going for them is societal pressure to be thin, which generally starts in the teenage years. At a time when boys are often concerned with bulking up, or stuffing their faces with whatever Carl's Junior is advertising that season, girls are learning about calories and nutrition, taking up jogging or Zumba classes and reading beauty magazines (full of exercise, weight loss and psychological tips to avoid excess eating) effort to fit in with the model-slim ideal.By the time college rolls around, many women are already connosseiurs of salads, have a repertoire of lean and healthy recipes, and are likely to be engaged in some sort of regular exercise routine. The boys, well, they're still happily scarfing down pizzas and playing their video games for hours on end. This is not to say that girls don't also scarf down pizzas or pursue sedentary activities; it's just that women in general -- over the course of their lives -- are likely to have paid attention to healthy lifestyle factors geared to achieving and maintaining a normal weight. If and when a women does become obese, she's likely to have a greater knowledge base around successful weight loss strategies. It's also more likely that she has increased motivation to lose weight. You rarely hear about a man fretting "Does this make me look fat?" but it's a cliche among women. When men do finally decide to do something about their weight, possibly in their 20s or 30s, they're very likely to fumble around with ill-advised strategies that women know ain't gonna work. (And one of these strategies, IMHO, is going on "a diet" in the first place: as many of us know, it's long-term, consistent lifestyle changes that keeps the weight off, not a frenzied "after the holidays" semi-fast).