 Freelancing copywriting has its ups and downs. It can be a great way to earn income while working from home. On the other hand, work can be sporadic; writers will often complain about "feast or famine" mode, which can be stressful. And the quarterly tax liability and lack of employer benefits (health insurance) can suck.I have not worked for Upwork or any other online third party, so I can't speak to that experience. However, I can offer a few tips for getting and keeping steady freelance work.1. Sign on with a temp agency. In my market, we have Creative Circle, Filter and a few others which represent creative talent to clients and companies. They will talk to you, review your portfolio and resume, and try to hook you up with gigs which can range from single projects to short-term on-site gigs.The pay can be pretty bad, since the agencies tend to take a huge cut for themselves. But not McDonald's bad; you can probably expect to make at least $30/hr if you are a junior (3-5 years' experience), and up to $75/hr as a senior (10+ years experience plus a portfolio with some impressive stuff).But, this can be a reliable source of income, and depending on how much you are willing to settle (in terms of hourly rate and desirability of the assignments), you can reasonably expect work to come in via the temp agency route during the first month.Plus, you'll get a chance to prove yourself. Your clients may leave for other companies, and if they like you, they might hire you again and cut out the agency middleman. This has happened to me several times, and connections are very important in ensuring a steady-ish stream of work.2. Check out Craigslist. Seriously, this is where I've found a lot of my clients. Look under "writing jobs" and "marketing/ad jobs," not necessarily "gigs" (but you should look at that, too). Often, companies will be looking to hire a copywriter, but if you apply, you can often start out as a freelancer (they will often want to"try before they buy" by giving you a project or two). Quite often, these can turn into regular freelance gigs.3. Work your connections. I'd say that about 80 percent of my freelance work comes from former colleagues (who have moved on to different agencies and corporate marketing departments) and referrals from those colleagues. Develop a good reputation as a reliable, high-quality writer, and you will likely be top-of-mind when it comes to writing work. LinkedIn and Facebook can be great for this. Send an email to folks you know, or have worked with, and tell them you are available for freelance work. With a link to your portfolio, obviously. Also do this with any art directors, designers, producers etc.; they will often be involved in the decision-making process for assembling a creative team. Or they might know another designer who is looking for a copywriter.Any connections you can make to the ecosystem (the group of people involved in initiating, planning, writing, designing, producing and paying for the work, whether it's a website, ad/marketing materials, sales materials etc.) the more likely it will be that you will be considered for assignments.4. Be excellent.Ok, this sound a bit "Bill and Ted" but it's key for maintaining steady freelance work. Everyone wants a writer who is good, fast and reasonable. And nobody can expect all three, really. Most successful freelancers will hit on two out of three things (less-experienced writers may be good and cheap, but not especially fast, compared to their senior counterparts). But you can also increase your value by being reliable (sticking to your deadlines, being quick to answer email, showing up on time and prepared for meetings). You can do it by being professional (making sure your communication is buttoned-up, delivering your documents in a clean, neat and meticulously proofread). And you can do it by being friendly and easy to work with, even when you are not dealing with the client directly.If you think you will need more time, ask well in advance. If you don't understand aspects of the assignment, research them on your own and then get back with specific questions. Try not to put down the client or their judgement; if you disagree with something, be prepared to defend it, keeping the client's end goal in mind. 5. Keep track of your hours meticulously, invoice promptly. For me, it's easiest to track this using the Notes app on my iPhone. Let's say I spent a half-hour on a conference call, then spent another two hours researching the project and another two hours writing, I would enter it this way:8/7/15Qualcomm conference call, safety brochure kickoff .50Qualcomm, research, hospital acquired infections, current Medicare reiumbursement 2.00Qualcomm, writing safety brochure 2.00At the end of the month, I create my invoice based on the time I put in, per client, per day (with notes on what exactly I did), then send my invoices with a net 30 deadline.5. Keep a frugal mindset.Work does not always come in at a steady pace, and I cannot tell you what to expect for the first few months. In the future, you may find some steady clients; some of whom may pay you a monthly retainer, or hire you on for one on-site day a week, and this can help you plan your budget. But if you are just starting out, and don't have an alternate source of income, you may have to bite the bullet and cut back on clothes, eating out, drinking, entertainment etc. 6. A few other random tips. Freelancing for large companies is almost always better than startups, or heaven-knows, entrepreneurships or family-owned companies. Ideally, you'll want to find clients within marketing departments of large public companies like Qualcomm, Abbott, Johnson & Johnson (these are a few of my clients, all in the healthcare space but you get the idea).These projects will have bigger budgets, and you will not be getting paid out of the owner's pocket, so less griping when a project goes over budget or even on-budget. Charge the same hourly rate no matter what you are doing. They want you on a conference call, at a meeting, or to visit a store or whatever? Don't fall into the trap of charging a lower rate for non-writing work. Think of it this way: every hour you are spending on calls is an hour you could be writing for someone else. (Big companies will understand this; smaller ones will balk). Short calls, emails etc., use your discretion. If it's a huge client throwing me thousands of dollars in work every month, I won't charge for touch-base things, but if they want me on some bullshit two-hour call, you can bet those two hours are put on the invoice.I am sorry if this answer was rushed; I actually am putting off some freelance work due Monday morning in order to write this.