 I usually do not answer questions that call for a list, because inevitably I leave out people who should be on the list, and I don't want to hurt anyone's feelings. I've been a longtime Quora user and have come across a lot of amazing contributors. My list will include newer, highly-active Quorans, as well as users who are no longer as active, but are worth subscribing to for their past contributions alone.Unlike many "famous" Quora users, Adrin Lamo is both prolific and proficient. And by proficient, I mean he writes beautifully about a host of topics. He's known for hacking, but his answers on ethics are even more amazing (and highly insightful, based on his life experience).Speaking of ethics, I want to put in a plug for Steve Vettraino and Josh Manson, who write accurately and eloquently about recreational drug use, legal issues and other aspects of the so-called underworld. On a website where there are millions of people who write about technology, careers, colleges, parenting etc., it's nice to see shared knowledge on topics that don't have a lot of meaningful contributors.When it comes to tech, funding, startups and business stuff, I like Terrence Yang and Patrick Mathieson. Michael Forrest Jones insight into the hospitality industry makes him a must. Archie D'Cruz, a former journalist, is one of the most polished writers on Quora, with great answers on Advertising (Ron Rule should be mentioned as well). Mira Zaslove and Dan Holliday give consistent, knock-out-of-the-park answers on many topics, but they're must-follows for anyone interested in careers and interviewing (as are Gayle Laakmann McDowell and Jackie Bavaro, on the tech/engineering side.)Karen Tiede has been brightening my feed lately, with her no-nonsense life advice. Cyndi Perlman Fink, Marie Stein, Stephanie Vardavas, Charles Faraone and Garrick Saito are other users whom I consider among Quora's sages. For a young person, Ava Glass also gives some sage advice, and his recent life experience post have been riveting. Not to reduce anyone to joker status, but if you want a laugh or two, subscribe to Domhnall O'Huigin, Andrew Gutsch and Bianca N. DieselAnd love him or hate him (and I happen to love him), you should also follow Leonard Kim, because his answers always seem to blow up. That's all I got, have to get back to my regularly-scheduled work now. Happy subscribing!