 This question reminds me of the adage, "Don't believe everything you think." And the more life experience I get, the more I find myself thinking in shades of grey, and my agreements becoming more context-based and contingent.I certainly will upvote some answers that I disagree with. I don't know everything, and even things I think I know may not be true in certain circumstances. Especially those which I have arrived at by observation, rather than direct experience. (And even direct experience can be skewed, because it's often anecdotal and may cause me to selectively pay attention to other anecdotal phenomena through the Salience (neuroscience) effect.For example, I've upvoted answers on the eating disorders/anorexia topic, even though I bristle when folks make the assumption that all anorexics are unduly influenced by images in the media. This certainly wasn't my experience, and my gut tells me that imagery can be a trigger, but the pathology is driven by something deeper, and blaming media images is trivializing the problem. I also tend to upvote answers where the writer went through the same experience, but processed it in a different way. (How did it feel when you went skydiving for the first time?) This may not be the best example, but we have a lot of questions that are phrased less neutrally. In the skydiving question, a few people noted that "you don't feel like you are falling," which did not ring true for me at all. One thing I see a lot are what I call 'academic answers;' viewpoints based on data and collective wisdom which are technically accurate, but leave a lot of salient things out. I might upvote these answers because the data-based conclusion is a good one, but not necessarily a complete one based on my experience.In these cases, I might disagree with the answer on the basis of what is left out. But again, the importance of what is left out might be a salience issue, and my disagreement may have more to do with me than what is really going on. I'm pretty generous with my upvotes. If an answer makes me think, or gives me even one nugget of insight, it will get my vote, sure. Granted, I may also register my disagreements (or opposing viewpoints) in the comments, but I do like to read things I do not agree with, because I am not interested in ossifying my opinions anytime soon.