 I am surprised nobody mentioned housecleaning or maid work. In many cases, these jobs pay sub minimum wage, if you factor in uncompensated travel or break time. Some employers also forbid any eating or drinking on the job, which can also be dangerous in a physically-demanding, non-climate-controlled environment. Add in exposure to cleaning chemicals and repetitive stress injuries and you have a real element of danger to physical health.Barbara Ehrenreich, the social justice writer, spent some time working for Merry Maids housecleaning franchise. Here is an excerpt from an article she wrote, which later was incorporated into her famous book "Nickel and Dimed" (emphasis mine):But cleaning services lay down rules meant to enforce a factorylike - or even conventlike - discipline on their far-flung employees. At The Maids, there were no breaks except for a daily 10-minute stop at a convenience store for coffee or 'lunch' - meaning something like a slice of pizza. Otherwise, the time spent driving between houses was considered our 'break' and the only chance to eat, drink or (although this was also officially forbidden) smoke a cigarette. When the houses were spaced well apart, I could eat my sandwich in one sitting; otherwise it would have to be divided into as many as three separate, hasty snacks.In a customer's house, nothing was to touch our lips at all, not even water - a rule that, on hot days, I sometimes broke by drinking from a bathroom tap. TVs and radios were off-limits, and we were never, ever, to curse out loud, even in an ostensibly deserted house. There might be a homeowner secreted in some locked room, we were told, ear pressed to the door, or, more likely, a tape recorder or video camera running. At the time, I dismissed this as a scare story, but I have since come across ads for devices like the Tech-7 'incredible coin-sized camera' designed to 'get a visual record of your babysitter's actions' and 'watch employees to prevent theft'. It was the threat or rumour of hidden recording devices that provided the final capitalist-industrial touch: supervision.What makes the work most factory-like, though, is the intense regimen imposed by the companies. Deviations are subject to rebuke, as I discovered when a team leader caught me moving my arm from right to left, then left to right, while wiping Windex over a French door. But even ritual work takes its toll on those assigned to perform it. Turnover is dizzyingly high in the cleaning-service industry, and not only because of the usual challenges that confront the working poor: childcare problems, unreliable transportation, evictions, and prior health problems. As my long-winded interviewer at Merry Maids warned me, and my co-workers at The Maids confirmed, this is a physically punishing occupation, something to tide you over for a few months, not year after year. The hands-and-knees posture damages knees, with or without pads; vacuuming strains the back; constant wiping and scrubbing invite repetitive-strain injuries even in the very young.In my three weeks as a maid, I suffered nothing more than a persistent muscle spasm in the right forearm, but the damage would have been far worse if I'd had to go home every day to my own housework and children, as most of my co-workers did, instead of returning to my motel and indulging in a daily after-work regimen of ice packs and stretches. Chores that seem effortless at home, even almost recreational, quickly turn nasty when performed hour after hour, with few or no breaks and under relentless time pressure.Having cleaned the rooms of many overly privileged teenagers in my stint with The Maids, I've come to the conclusion that the American overclass is raising a generation of young people who will, without constant assistance, suffocate in their own detritus.Almost everything we buy is the product of some other person's suffering and miserably underpaid labour. I clean my own house (though I have to admit I recently hired someone else to ready it for a short-term tenant), but I can hardly claim purity in any other area of consumption. I buy my jeans at shops which are reputed to subcontract to sweatshops. I tend to favour decorative objects no doubt ripped off from scantily paid Third World craftspersons. Like everyone else, I eat salad greens just picked by migrant farm workers, some of them possibly children. So why should housework - as I have found in conversations with liberal-minded employers of maids - arouse any special angst?