 I am going to be a contrarian and say it doesn't suck as much as calling from a list of contacts. Provided, of course, that you can cherry-pick your cold contacts, and are not strictly required to follow a script. When I was a teen, I worked a variety of pick-up jobs to supplement my regular income whenever possible. I liked sales because the money was generally better, per hour, than most jobs I was qualified for. (A high school student doesn't typically have too many choices when it comes to being hired, but if you can sell, you can get a job selling.)I worked two sales positions, both of them in the summers. One was for an investment company, when I was calling on individuals. The second was for a software company, calling on small businesses.Both advertised the positions as "no cold calling required." For the investment company, this was a little misleading. We had some "warm leads" in the form of people who had filled out an opt-in card to "learn more about retirement plan opportunities" or subscribe to a free newsletter. (This was in the early 80s, so nothing was online.)For the software company, the leads were similar: people who had attended a free seminar in business computing (computers being a bit of a novelty for personal users, but affordable enough for small businesses to own and use).The problem with the warm leads is that they were like the Glen Ross leads from Glengarry Glen Ross. These contacts were mature; these people had gotten dozens of similar sales calls over the years, and they largely were not interested. So most were not receptive to my message, or the freaking script for that matter. (When you hire high school students as salespeople, you can bet there's a script, and most telesales scripts are pretty shitty.) Sometimes, sure, I got some sales. Because in both of these cases, the product and offer were actually pretty great. However, I only made commission if I made a sale (or if the investor agreed to a follow-up phone call from a broker). So it soon became clear to me that I needed to hunt in greener pastures, as it were.So I turned to the phone book, for lookalike prospects. For the investment firm, these were people who lived in affluent areas who had "old person" names. (Myrtle and Orville Smith, at a single-family home address in a Ballard ZIP code, for example.) I could reasonably assume, given the phone book information, that the Smiths were older folk who owned their home, and might have a few bucks to throw at a retirement plan.For the software company, I looked in the yellow pages. "Smith & Co. Auto Insurance Agency." Looked like a place that could use some accounting software, maybe. In both cases, I also targeted wealthier towns and suburbs in certain cities, and after awhile, certain types of businesses that seemed receptive to my product and pitch.I didn't follow the provided scripts, though I used a large portion of information from them. And I probably played the "young student calling on behalf of my boss"card quite a bit to gain their trust, and possibly their payment information.So while telesales kind of sucked for me, as an introvert, making sales was very rewarding. And I did well, and later returned to sales at certain financially-low points in my life. It was a bit of a game, and probably helped increase my skills in the art of persuasion, which I use to this day as an advertising copywriter.