 A2A, because I will be getting 262 units of something that won't mean anything soon, to add to my soon-to-be eliminated bank of units whose number I don't carefully track.It's yet another policy change kerfuffle, and the kerfuffle part fascinates me because of people's reaction to it. After it was pre-announced on one of the Top Writers Facebook pages, many writers responded with expressions mirroring the Kubler-Ross Five Stages of Grief:Denial: "Just to ensure, the credits are actually going, right?"Anger: "I am very upset about removal of credits, since they didn't say how A2A's will be regulated without credits now."Bargaining: "Actually what's some method still available to get credits out of the system? Promoting used to work like that, but now what can we do? "Depression: "I am heartbroken already."Acceptance: "I think most of us have seen so many terrible changes on Quora that we just quit caring about it." Then, of course, there was the inevitable (jokey) fallout from the credit-balance-showing game, with wealthy Quorans humorously humblebragging ( "I feel like a criminal who had my assets frozen.") while others bemoaning their relative pauper status ("I feel lame; I never broke 700k..." or even "I might hold the record of one of the poorest QTWs.")What do I think about it? Other than enjoying the kerfuffle (and by enjoying it, I don't mean in a snarky way; the social scientist in me is enjoying seeing the reactions to something that is, at its heart, completely trivial), I don't care.Though several Quorans, such as Archie D'Cruz, found some meaningful way to use the credits, more often than not, they were essentially useless. Sure, you could ask to answer folks, but honestly, the types of users likely to contribute great solicited answers were usually filthy credit-rich anyhow.I am a little sad about the loss of Promote, but honestly, I never saw a positive ROI (which a credit-counter may care about). I mainly promoted answers because I felt they deserved a bump in views or I wanted to encourage a user somehow. The user encouragement metric, I feel, did lead the promotion of mediocre or limited-interest answers, which is one of the reasons Quora gave for the change. Now, I'm more likely to nominate good answers for publishing (on Publish This: Quora's Publishing Nominations Blog. Being published, in my mind, beats thousands of Quora views and a few hundred extra upvotes any day of the week. On the flip side, there's a huge contingent of credit-counters, credit farmers and especially credit enviers, to whom credits seemed to be a constant source of worry and stress. These people often loudly complained about A2A prices, declined or ignored A2As, or in the case of some popular writers, fretted about their A2A price or the perceived repercussions of passed A2As.The presence of credit-counters shows me that credits were certainly a motivating (gamifying) factor for many, but if the end result wasn't acceptable (e.g. the credit system ultimately encouraging the growth of quality answers, and hence the quality of the site by their own definition), then I agree: the system should be fixed. And "fixing" may mean permanent elimination, or temporary halting until a better system can be implemented. And I will join the Bargainers in saying that Quora likely will still store records of users' credit balances, in case it wants to reinstate earned credits at some point, though I can't imagine them restoring the Credits feature without converting to some new system of currency.