 Mine was a financial coincidence. I had just gotten my first-ever iPhone, and had taken it on vacation to Mexico. Well, I lost it. First time I'd ever lost a phone, and it was a brand new iPhone.No big deal, I thought I would replace it for $250 or so. This is what I paid when I signed my contract with the carrier. But what I didn't realize that the phone was subsidized, and the cost of a replacement phone was much higher. 850 dollars.To me, that was a crazy amount to spend on a phone. A friend offered me his old Blackberry (a very nice one, actually, but not an iPhone), and I started using that. But I beat myself up for losing the iPhone. "You don't deserve to have nice things" etc. etc. But this was a bit triggering for me, because when I was young, if I lost something it was hardly ever replaced. (I had to go through winter without a proper coat once.)So I began to consider replacing it, but only under extraordinary circumstances. I said to myself, "it's only $850." There were four days in the month, so I told myself that if I could earn an extra $850 in that time, I would buy the phone.Less than 5 minutes after making that agreement with myself, I got an email out of the blue. It was a former colleague from San Francisco, where I had lived about 10 years previous. He had an emergency, needed a brochure written and called me because I was the only writer he knew who had experience writing in that particular topic (obstructive sleep apnea)."How much are you willing to pay?" I asked.He asked how much I would charge. It was a quickie project, not a ton of work but it had to be turned around quickly. I said "I'll do it for $850, but I need to be paid right away."I explained the deal I'd made with myself, and we laughed. He said he'd drop a check in the mail, and sure enough, it arrived in two days. (The brochure copy I completed that evening.)I never heard from the guy again. (Well, except on Facebook, where we are friends.) But I did miraculously get the cash to replace my phone, and on the last day of the month, I walked into the Verizon store and bought that I phone.I still have it.