 A2A. I actually work with a major city newspaper on native advertising, and I can tell you exactly how it works. Basically, the newsroom is kept apart from the advertising and marketing departments. Separation of church and state.Native advertising doesn't just originate in the marketing department, it stays there. Writers, such as myself, are employed to work with the client to come up with native content. If it needs photography, it's shot by an outside photographer (we don't have someone in-house), or more commonly, a stock photo is used. The native content may or may not be bylined. At our newspaper, we run bylined stuff that is more on the editorial side ("holiday shopping guide for the sports fan" or "10 brunch spots with the best bacon dishes"), and any particular advertiser does not get to choose whether it's featured, though we are sometimes encouraged to mention particular businesses, but never more direction than that. If it's directly featuring a product or service, then we don't byline it. It will say something like, "produced by The Seattle Times advertising department" that clearly denotes its paid nature.Though there are times when I do write more news-oriented content, it's usually for native advertising for the publisher. (For example, I just finished up a monthly digest of business news, which involved curating articles written previously by the newsroom and published in the paper, then summarizing them for the digest). They send these digests out free, with the hopes that readers will be intrigued enough to subscribe to the paper, where they can read full versions of stories like this.There are lots of different types of professional writers out there, and I'd venture to guess that there are more on the advertising and marketing side. (Everyone needs to eat, and it's a lot more lucrative to write material that's selling something than it is to get readers to pay for your content). So it's not that hard to find dedicated writers for the native stuff. Many of them, again myself included, find pseudo-journalism more interesting than other forms of sales writing.