 Speaking as someone who's naturally eyebrow-challenged, sometimes there is not enough hair to form any sort of attractive shape. And if you're going to pencil them in anyway, you might as well do it on a smooth surface. I went in for a waxing once. This was in my 30s, when I had more eyebrow hairs than I did now. The waxing person took one look at me and said, "Oh, honey, there's nothing to wax!" And she warned me that waxing would possibly damage the few hairs I had left. Luckily, at the time, extremely thin, penciled eyebrows were in style, so for a few years I simply bleached my eyebrow hairs, trimmed them neatly (well, as much as I could given the fact that the hairs are few and far between) and then drew on a brow with a sticky eyeliner-type pencil in a taupe shade. Then I would dust it with face powder and set it with a liquid bandage product. (My fake eyebrow routine took some time and a lot of experimentation to perfect, if you couldn't tell.)Flash forward 15 years and my eyebrows are more or less nonexistent. I've moved on to an eyebrow powder, which has some texture and sets well on bare skin. It's funny, now that I think about it, my entire makeup routine basically evolved around my lack of eyebrows and refusal to wear bangs (I could cover up the eyebrowlessness better this way).What happens when I don't wear eyebrow pencil, or makeup for that matter? Well, my features kind of disappear, especially when I am tan (I have light eyes and olive skin), and I personally think I look weird, though my mom and sisters also have extremely sparse eyebrows. Repercussions, other than looking a bit weird? I don't think there are any. I mean, everyone has something about their appearance that's a little odd, whether it be an oddly proportioned facial feature, overly thick eyebrows, flaring nostrils and the like. I personally don't know anyone who waxes their brows and draws them back on, but I imagine they either like the look or don't want to bother with shaping and plucking.