 "From the mindset that brought you the Axe body spray commercials.." At its heart, it seems juvenile and pathetic. The kind of thing only a certain type of young, sexually-frustrated man would take seriously.Sure, it's peppered with a lot of disrespectful language and stupid jokes that might get a person riled up. The female dating pool, for example, is described as "poon" which I think is a slur on female anatomy. It also spends a lot of time pushing forward the notion that "alpha males" somehow have it better when it comes to, um, poon. And that game-playing is a good way to nurture relationships with members of the poon class.Ugh, I could get mad. But it's so pathetic. It's like listening to Tea Party conservatives drone on about Obama's Kenyan birth, or the chemtrail conspiracy theorists insist that some evil force is controlling the weather.There will always be fringe fanatics on either side of an issue (feminism isn't really an issue, but some people make it out to be). Heartiste falls into this fringe category. It's off-putting, but it's mostly just stupid and pathetic.Edit: the question has been updated to read "what do feminists think of women who like Heartiste." My answer stands. I can't speak for why women would be that interested in it. However, one commenter supplied, as evidence, this profile:Im a 20-year-old girl studying mathy things at a college. Ravenclaw/Ravenclaw, INTJ, phlegmatic, Miranda, assigned Scorpio at birth but I identify as VirgoI like effective altruism, LaTeX, planning things, arugula, and Chateau Heartiste. There are other things I like but they are probably all linear combinations of the above.I only write in cursive.My greatest accomplishment is that I was on Arthur when I was 7.Yes, technically a 20-year-old is a woman, not a girl, but based on her profile (the astrology things, especially) she seems a bit juvenile as well. Not all women are feminists, of course. And I would imagine that any silly thing is going to have its share of fans of both genders.