 Great question! If you have never tried marijuana before, I would strongly encourage you to set aside your fears about smoking, because smokable marijuana (the plant buds) produces the shortest-acting, most predictable high.If you have the money, I would recommend you purchase a vaporizer concentrate with a low THC/low cannabinoid level. Your budtender -- the person selling marijuana at the store -- will be able to advise you on products suitable for a first-time user. The vaporizer is much less harsh on your throat because it produces less smoke; similar to a tobacco vaporizer compared to a regular cigarette. However, even with regular smokable bud, you will not need to inhale much to get high. Buy a pipe -- you can get them really cheap -- and start with a tiny hit, filling your lungs to 1/16th capacity, holding it in for a few seconds, then exhaling. Wait about 10 minutes, you should start feeling it. If you want more, take another tiny hit.In addition, when you smoke, make sure you are in a safe place, with people you trust. Queue up some music or a favorite movie (the Harry Potter series is really good when you're stoned), have some snacks on hand (your sense of taste will be magnified) and avoid alcohol or other drugs.If you decide to go the edibles route, know that these innocuous-looking cookies and candies can pack a wallop. You can hallucinate, vomit, feel dizzy, or get really paranoid -- it can be extremely unpleasant. Plus, the onset of the high takes a while -- about an hour or two -- in which time many inexperienced users will end up consuming too much because they don't feel anything. If I were you, I'd avoid heavy indicas (and indica hybrids) and stick to the sativas. This is not a hard-and-fast rule, but indicas tend to produce a heavy-limbed, sleepy, munchie-inducing high, whereas sativas tend to instill euphoria, giggliness, creativity and other, more social effects. You can read more about products and strains on here (Marijuana Dispensary & Strain Reviews), and also locate a recreational shop convenient to your Colorado location. Have fun and stay safe, kids!