 will hit on two out of three things (less-experienced writers may be good and cheap, but not especially fast, compared to their senior counterparts). But you can also increase your value by being reliable (sticking to your deadlines, being quick to answer email, showing up on time and prepared for meetings). You can do it by being professional (making sure your communication is buttoned-up, delivering your documents in a clean, neat and meticulously proofread). And you can do it by being friendly and easy to work with, even when you are not dealing with the client directly.If you think you will need more time, ask well in advance. If you don't understand aspects of the assignment, research them on your own and then get back with specific questions. Try not to put down the client or their judgement; if you disagree with something, be prepared to defend it, keeping the client's end goal in mind. 5. Keep track of your hours meticulously, invoice promptly. For me, it's easiest to track this using the Notes app on my iPhone. Let's say I spent a half-hour on a conference call, then spent another two hours researching the project and another two hours writing, I would enter it this way:8/7/15Qualcomm conference call, safety brochure kickoff .50Qualcomm, research, hospital acquired infections, current Medicare reiumbursement 2.00Qualcomm, writing safety brochure 2.00At the end of the month, I create my invoice based on the time I put in, per client, per day (with notes on what exactly I did), then send my invoices with a net 30 deadline.5. Keep a frugal mindset.Work does not always come in at a steady pace, and I cannot tell you what to expect for the first few months. In the future, you may find some steady clients; some of whom may pay you a monthly retainer, or hire you on for one on-site day a week, and this can help you plan your budget. But if you are just starting out, and don't have an alternate source of income, you may have to bite the bullet and cut back on clothes, eating out, drinking, entertainment etc. 6. A few other random tips. Freelancing for large companies is almost always better than startups, or heaven-knows, entrepreneurships or family-owned companies. Ideally, you'll want to find clients within marketing departments of large public companies like Qualcomm, Abbott, Johnson & Johnson (these are a few of my clients, all in the healthcare space but you get the idea).These projects will have bigger budgets, and you will not be getting paid out of the owner's pocket, so less griping when a project goes over budget or even on-budget. Charge the same hourly rate no matter what you are doing. They want you on a conference call, at a meeting, or to visit a store or whatever? Don't fall into the trap of charging a lower rate for non-writing work. Think of it this way: every hour you are spending on calls is an hour you could be writing for someone else. (Big companies will understand this; smaller ones will balk). Short calls, emails etc., use your discretion. If it's a huge client throwing me thousands of dollars in work every month, I won't charge for touch-base things, but if they want me on some bullshit two-hour call, you can bet those two hours are put on the invoice.I am sorry if this answer was rushed; I actually am putting off some freelance work due Monday morning in order to write this.