 Freelancing copywriting has its ups and downs. It can be a great way to earn income while working from home. On the other hand, work can be sporadic; writers will often complain about "feast or famine" mode, which can be stressful. And the quarterly tax liability and lack of employer benefits (health insurance) can suck.I have not worked for Upwork or any other online third party, so I can't speak to that experience. However, I can offer a few tips for getting and keeping steady freelance work.1. Sign on with a temp agency. In my market, we have Creative Circle, Filter and a few others which represent creative talent to clients and companies. They will talk to you, review your portfolio and resume, and try to hook you up with gigs which can range from single projects to short-term on-site gigs.The pay can be pretty bad, since the agencies tend to take a huge cut for themselves. But not McDonald's bad; you can probably expect to make at least $30/hr if you are a junior (3-5 years' experience), and up to $75/hr as a senior (10+ years experience plus a portfolio with some impressive stuff).But, this can be a reliable source of income, and depending on how much you are willing to settle (in terms of hourly rate and desirability of the assignments), you can reasonably expect work to come in via the temp agency route during the first month.Plus, you'll get a chance to prove yourself. Your clients may leave for other companies, and if they like you, they might hire you again and cut out the agency middleman. This has happened to me several times, and connections are very important in ensuring a steady-ish stream of work.2. Check out Craigslist. Seriously, this is where I've found a lot of my clients. Look under "writing jobs" and "marketing/ad jobs," not necessarily "gigs" (but you should look at that, too). Often, companies will be looking to hire a copywriter, but if you apply, you can often start out as a freelancer (they will often want to"try before they buy" by giving you a project or two). Quite often, these can turn into regular freelance gigs.3. Work your connections. I'd say that about 80 percent of my freelance work comes from former colleagues (who have moved on to different agencies and corporate marketing departments) and referrals from those colleagues. Develop a good reputation as a reliable, high-quality writer, and you will likely be top-of-mind when it comes to writing work. LinkedIn and Facebook can be great for this. Send an email to folks you know, or have worked with, and tell them you are available for freelance work. With a link to your portfolio, obviously. Also do this with any art directors, designers, producers etc.; they will often be involved in the decision-making process for assembling a creative team. Or they might know another designer who is looking for a copywriter.Any connections you can make to the ecosystem (the group of people involved in initiating, planning, writing, designing, producing and paying for the work, whether it's a website, ad/marketing materials, sales materials etc.) the more likely it will be that you will be considered for assignments.4. Be excellent.Ok, this sound a bit "Bill and Ted" but it's key for maintaining steady freelance work. Everyone wants a writer who is good, fast and reasonable. And nobody can expect all three, really. Most successful freelancers