 One of the benefits of the widespread prevalence of photos is that people are being exposed to more images of real people. Twenty years ago, this wasn't the case. Most images you encountered were on TV or in print. Many were professionally shot, probably styled and posed as well, culled from a series of photos which may have included some not-so-flattering images.Today, I'd venture to guess the average person on social media views hundreds of portraits (and full-body shots) before they fully wake up in the morning. And most of these images are of regular people; our family, friends, coworkers, acquaintances and their acquaintances as well.We're being exposed to a lot of representations of physical appearance, and almost none of these are posed beyond the self-positioning done in selfies. And while filters and treatments are certainly used, we all have equal access to them.I'd venture to say that the saturation of images is helping everybody get a better take on how good they look in relation to everyone else.Therapists counseling people with body image disorders often tell them to join a gym. Not necessarily to work out, but to get an idea of what real people look like without clothing. And I can vouch for this: even the most perfect-looking folks will usually have something odd about their body; a patch of fat in some weird place, perhaps some sagging or scarring. Seeing the spectrum of real human bodies (not just airbrushed fitness models) can give some valuable perspective on one's own looks.I feel this phenomenon has been replicated in some degree by social media and photo sharing. Even models and celebrities are often caught off guard, looking less than picture-perfect, and these images are highly accessible as well. As to whether individual people think they are better- or worse-looking than they actually are, this can depend on the day and situation, as well as the psychological makeup of the individual. But in this day and age, I think people are much more likely to make accurate comparisons of how their looks stack up to others', mostly because there is much more fodder for comparison.