 "Scaring off the Bear"Like Tula in My Big Fat Greek Wedding, I have a huge family. Twenty-seven cousins, though one sadly passed away a few years ago. When I was a child, all but one lived in Canada, and we lived in Seattle. So practically every summer, our family of six would pack up the Mercury station wagon and tent trailer for an extended road trip to visit our many relatives, and also do some camping in the Canadian Rockies, where my dad grew up.Though we typically stayed at established campsites, the wilderness was right outside the door. Towering mountains, gigantic evergreen trees, crystalline rivers. And bears. Lots of bears. It was not uncommon for these bears to come poking around the campsite, looking for food. During these times, my dad would make all the kids get into the car for protection, while he make bearlike sounds and gestures to make the animal go away. (It worked.) He's not the biggest guy around, but he wasn't afraid of no bears.On one of these trips, I was on a walk with my two sisters. I was eight, Mary was seven, and Joanne was four. She was small for her age, even by 1970's standards (kids were scrawnier back then). Probably about 35 pounds and a bit over 3 feet tallOn our walk and pinecone-gathering expedition, we encountered -- guess what? -- a bear. So little Joanne did what any four-year-old with a bear-scaring dad for a role model would do:Yep, tiny Joanne got on her tippy-toes, raised up her arms and growled, "ROAAAR!" Bear stared at her, probably astounded at her audacity. Then, after a minute or two, he lumbered away. I laugh to think about what would happen if this were to occur in 2015 (and there was video to show). The public would be horrified, our parents would probably be arrested and charged, and nobody would likely be allowed to venture outside the immediate confines of the campground until it had been reliably de-bearified. But this being the early 1970s, it just made for an interesting story to tell around the campfire.