 Siddharth BhattacharyaHistory serves to teach lessons, and in order to attain its purpose history needs symbols. Throughout human history atrocities and wars have occurred, but some stories have been more widely documented because telling them serves as a lesson to the future generations to not repeat similar mistakes. Hitler serves as one such universal symbol of "bad"- becoming an important symbol. How does Hitler serve as a symbol?A maniac whose hatred knew no bounds and who was willing to kill millions for his ideologies? Indeed, but he represents much more. Hitler & Nazis were merely a culmination of many things wrong, which needed fixing in our society. Anti-semitism: Hitler didn't start it. Indeed it dates back centuries, much before Shakespeare created Shylock in Merchant of Venice. Hitler merely became the face of the movement when he decided they were an inferior race and needed to be exterminated.Layman involvement: A disturbing thing about the whole episode is that Hitler didn't become Chancellor via a coup. (He was imprisoned for trying the same in Beer Hall Putsch.) He climbed the democratic leader, got public votes becoming Chancellor in 1933. Although the leadership of SS, Gestapo were comprised of people like Himmler, Goebbels who hated Jews passionately, the bulk of these organizations comprised of everyday folks. People doing their work to earn their living. These citizens of an industrialized, cultured and educated nation - perfectly capable of making sound decisions for themselves - were complicit to mass murder. Mechanical nature of the killings and scale: The killers were neither barbarians on the street, nor was it only the national military. Extermination of Jews was part of government policy. Sophisticated machinery - including gas chambers - was especially developed for the purpose. The process involved the government and citizens of the nation alike. Moreover it was conducted in an extremely mechanical way - unlike soldiers charged to kill their opponents. It wasn't a battle to be won, it was just work to be done. 6 million Jews were killed as a result, but what's baffling is not just the scale of the dead, but also the scale of the killers.Image: SS GuardsSo how didn't the citizens feel a revulsion in carrying executions? What made them justify killings to themselves? What were the benefits they as individuals or Germany as a nation was getting out of eradicating its own peaceful Jewish population? Nazism is a symbol of the power of hatred, propaganda and desperation which can push educated, civilized citizens into not just assenting to, but also participating in exterminating an entire race believing it to be the final solution to their problems. The reasons leading up to Hitler's rise make up for an interesting case study - loss in WW1, Treaty of Versailles, hyperinflation, Great Depression - on reasons which led citizens to justify killings, but in the end they were just immediate causes and none of it would've been possible for the Nazis without the prevalent antisemitism and rampant use of nationalist imagery. All these tragedies in human history are a reflection of dark recesses in ourselves. When do we let our morality submit to fear, hatred and other primal instincts? Holocaust exposed lots of it, making us a self-aware race of what not to repeat. Is it the worst tragedy in human history?In terms of number of people killed, most probably not. Humans have been killing each other for ages, when entire kingdoms used to wipe out each other in quest for land. However what separates Holocaust from other battles is intent. There was no purpose to the killings, no tangible benefits being reaped. The killings were simply a result of hatred & discrimination. Yet the scale was huge. Millions of defenceless people across genders, ages were killed by another thousands. The "race war" unlike other wars wasn't a means to an end, it was an end itself. The fact that ordinary citizens were willing to do it for no obvious benefits reveals us a very scary side of ourselves. How does it compare to Armenian (and other) Genocide(s)?Probably similar. In the particular case of the Armenian genocide, it's indeed the second most studied genocide behind Holocaust. However if history needed one symbol to reemphasize the lessons, there are some good reasons why Germany should be the one: The fact that they were an industrialized developed nation, with high education, artistic influences in a modernist world is important. In times of current turmoil between developed and developing world, the choice of a white/Christian country rather than a (past) Muslim country is much more helpful so as to serve a constant reminder that the Western civilization has had its flaws and wreaked enough havoc once upon a time.Lastly, the way Germany bounced back from the loss is a symbol in itself. Many countries have done bad to others, but Germany has shown character by admitting to its flaws and making intense efforts to purge itself. Denazification, teaching future generations on the country's dark past and yet bouncing back as one of the largest economies. The character shown by Germany is an excellent symbol in history of learning from mistakes.Godwin's Law of Nazi AnalogiesGodwin's law is often neglected, often overstated. Not every comparison to Hitler is valid, not every comparison is invalid. The temptation to compare random 'villians' to Hitler is too much. Feminazi, grammar-nazi? The phrase "Oh he had lots of followers, so what? Even Hitler had them". The acceptance of Hitler as a moral objective "bad" makes it tempting for people arguing to draw equivalences between their opponent (or their viewpoint) to Nazis thus proving it's wrong. Why is that bad? It kills the symbol. If anything and everything can be compared to Hitler (Nazis) it's not such a bad act after all. Hitler becomes our video game villian, the one we want to throw tomatoes at to vent out. And that's the symbolism getting lost - history functions to preserve the lesson learnt through Hitler rather than making him a pedestrian bad guy to vent our frustrations on. On the other hand, quoting Godwin's Law to trivialize acts which actually rival in seriousness (like Armenian Genocide) is a disservice to the people who were victims of those genocides as well as reduces the credibility of Godwin's Law. So the thing to remember is - each of these historic atrocities has a lesson to teach on what not to repeat. We can take them all seperately without comparing intensities. As for why Hitler is chosen as the absolute symbol of bad, it was because the entire story makes for an excellent (revolting) historical symbol.