 Siddharth BhattacharyaI am an atheist. I get irritated everytime a religious argument is used for constraining me from doing something I like of the form "You can't do it because God won't approve of it" or "religious scriptures say so". Nevertheless unlike other answers here, I will say the need for religion still exists. While rejecting religion absolutely, we forget the current state of morality we take for granted- which humans should understand themselves even without the concept of God- a possibility that without religion such morality may never have existed. Religion feeds on the primal instinct of fear within humans to restrain them from committing heinous acts which they would have otherwise justified as "necessary" citing circumstances. The fear of a divine creature who can punish these individuals is a wonderful concept to create restraint. Coming to the present times when after the evolution, morality has indeed seeped through within us. Do we still need religion? This is a scene of a slum in my country- India. The scene is not as beautiful as America. There's poverty everywhere. These people face misery everyday in their lives. What still keeps them going? Where do they get the hope from? What prevents them from robbing banks, stealing other's share of the pie because after all they are compelled to do so? It's this God. There's indeed magic in this concept. To wretched lives, words of hope sound like empty vessels. There's all the temptation to leave the moral, ethical path of working harder and get involved in illegal businesses- smuggling, theft. But they know- if they do God will punish them. And if they don't- God will help them by bringing hope into their lives, sufficient enough to live another day. So powerful is the concept of a God. Of course fear and punishment can be achieved through legislation rather than through God. But when governments take the power assigned to God into their own hands, we get authoritarian regimes like Soviet with bad records of human rights. Therefore having religion is a safer bet than granting more regulatory power to authorities for punishments. Religion/God are self-regulating punishments. However what definitely is not needed is mixing of politics with religion- laws based on these religious texts. Or taking legislative actions against perceived offense of any religious community. Else as long as poverty and miseries affect certain parts of the world, despite it's limitations religion is a safe-bet.