 Siddharth BhattacharyaFiltering the good from the bad and the ugly in the long term. This applies to criticism for all art forms- music, arts, movies, literature and anything similar. Different types of works serve different purposes. Some serve to entertain, some speak on social issues, some are vociferous with opinions. Each of them is crucial in their own way. Living in a society where speech isn't restricted, each of these forms would be released in the markets leaving the readers with enormous choice. Though choice can be an excellent thing, as described by Barry Schwartz in The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less it makes decision-making much more complex. Bombarded by choices, often readers can't engage in deep analysis of every text they tackle. As a result, lots of texts with a deeper meaning -and often powerful commentary on society- get discarded over other texts which are more appealing on the surface. To avoid loss of certain powerful texts into oblivion, critics dedicate their careers into analyzing hidden-layers of meaning behind the obvious. When texts have passed this test of criticism, they're rated by the critics for their quality. Those which perform fairly well in these ratings become recognized and critically acclaimed. This labeling often indicates to the reader whether it is worth buying. Some of these works are commercial successes, some are not. By introducing continuous process of constructive criticism for art-forms, we as a society ensure over a long period of time the best in terms of social value persevere irrespective of commercial success. In the absence of literary criticism, based on parameters like commercial success texts of relatively low value can shadow better ones. Some examples- 50 shades of Grey has been commercial successes while commercial failures like Moby Dick found recognition only after the author's death. In movies it is notable to see Citizen Kane- currently topping various critic's lists- was a huge commercial failure while Men in Black has been a huge success. (remembering the great film-critic Roger Ebert) Why do we need to preserve such texts? As said these texts are rich in social value. Art-forms have always been a powerful form of expressing opinions, dissent and social commentary. By discussing them continually the society has progressed into it's current form- by questioning itself, exploring the answers through debating. These art-forms determine the thought-process for the generation on a whole and it's by analyzing them time & again, society can determine it's direction for change.