 Siddharth BhattacharyaDo ask yourself one question before starting journey of a quizzer: Why do you want to start competitive quizzing? Life at college (especially IITs) is hectic. There is lots to do: courses, assignments, projects. Why would you to make it worse by pursuing something demanding extensive reading, surfing and all that? Unlike projects, quizzing even gives no marks. Neither is there much money to be made and fame- forget it! If you're still listening despite this, you must be a curious soul. Quizzing needs curious souls and if you have it: then, becoming a good quizzer is trivial. You need to do nothing. Confused? Ok, if you want I will write an algorithm: Stay curious Attend quizzes (both competitive/ non-competitive) Don't give up <repeat> That's it! Curious to know why it works? Here is the 'proof of correctness': Becoming a good quizmaster is at least as difficult as becoming a good quizzer. Quizzers are a very critical group & leave no stone unturned in ridiculing a bad question. Now- what's a bad question? Generally one requiring memorization.A good question is considered one whose final answer is something even non-quizzers would've heard of- say Gandhi or Obama. Arriving at the correct solution requires intelligent guessing: eliminate alternatives or connect the dots. So the task of quizmaster is to make questions which facilitate the same for good quizzers. Good quizmasters would ensure you become a better quizzer. The caveat: questions often seem long, dry, unworkable. It often gives you 'I-don't-know-anything' moment. That's where the algorithm comes in. Don't give up: on curiosity as well as attendance. Like reading comics? Continue. Like watching movies? Watch more. Like sports? See more. Don't like politics? No need to explore it. Let it remain a fun activity rather than making it resemble coursework. Personal story: In my college (IIT-Delhi) there is a strong MELA (music-entertainment- literature- arts) culture in quizzes with the inherent assumption everyone likes watching movies/ listening to rock music etc. However I rarely see movies/series. As a result I suffered badly unable to clear prelims for a long time. It demotivated me and I quit quizzing for a long time. Nevertheless I kept reading news on my forte- sports. Explored more on it: on whatever interested me. I also used to read novels. Passive references to history, events compelled to explore some more. Indian literature motivated me to read more on India. So when I came back a year later into quizzing arena, I could at least clear prelims- it was all about curiosity. When I couldn't excel in my college- I searched other avenues. Tried inter-college events: won various accolades. By the end- though I am nowhere near the best in my college- I've won accolades representing my college, within my college, as well as featured 2-3 times on TV. And I still suck at ME(L)A.How to increase curiosity? I repeat- don't for the sake of quizzing. However if you are already curious and want to increase it, whenever you read 'something somewhere' or see some reference say in popular culture, do make a point to find out about it. Example: Homer Simpson mentioned Tianmen Sqaure. Don't know what it is? Keep it cached in your brain on things-to-google-next-time-I-use-internet. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Sample question: School quizzing- Which is the 8th largest country in the world? Working it out: So you know India is the 7th largest country. Which is the 8th? You don't know? There's not much you can do about it apart from remembering some large countries in the map and picking some random one. Answer: ArgentinaCollege quizzing- In 1757 after the Battle of Plassey when Robert Clive defeated Siraj ud-Daula he needed to pray to thank the Lord. But since the Nawab had destroyed the only church in the city he couldn't. Seeing the opportunity, a group of businessmen/merchants organized a ceremony for him so that he could still thank God. Widely praised, it went on to be an annual ceremony and continues till date in India. What are we talking about? Working it out: Where is Plassey? Where was Siraj-ud-Daula the Nawab of? If you know, great- we're one step closer. If you don't, it's still not over. What ceremony could the businessmen have thought? The idea was to pray to God. Some religious ceremony? Continues till date & widely praised: seems grandiose. Which religion? From the scale, can be Hinduism. If you don't know the state, guess some annual Hindu religious ceremony like Ganesh Chaturthi. If you do know the state is Bengal, the answer is of course- Durga Puja. Answer: We had no clue, but we just worked-it-out. Yipee!---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Remember: don't do anything out of your way for the sake of becoming a good quizzer. Read/ see stuff which interests you, go into it's depths, attend quizzes with an open brain and the results will follow after some time.