 Siddharth BhattacharyaMy memory is recent, so I'll give this one a go. I saw Roger Federer play Sam Groth in 2nd round at US Open 2014 in Arthur Ashe Stadium (Queens, NYC) on 27th August. He's been not just my favorite tennis player, but favorite sportstar for quite a long time and needless to say seeing him live from the stands is an extremely fulfilling experience. Moreover I didn't know I'm seeing him till an hour before the match as I'd booked tickets previous day in extreme hurry [1], so the added shock & excitement made my experience even better. Any live experience is composed of two parts: the performance and being a part of the audience (the crowds). I will detail them each in brief. Pic: Roger Federer (left), Sam Groth (right)The game and RF himselfHis shots in reality have the same trace of beauty as on TV. He came to the net a lot, apart from hitting beautiful cross-courts, backhands to clinch winners. The thing which I didn't expect was his serve and shots are really really fast. From seeing his matches on TV, I've always thought of Roger as a man of elegance and not power. But when I saw his match in reality, even though his shots have the same elegance they also are extremely powerful in a way I hadn't imagined. (for a relative speed reference, I'm comparing to the next match: Sharapova vs Liscki [2]). So there were many blinding aces. However due to hard-hitting shots, many points were won in net/out, but not by unforced errors. Pic: His great serveHe matched Groth in speed, outdid him in every other department. Needless to say, he won in straight sets. After the match, Federer spoke in fluent English to the media person, thanked all the audience and hit tennis balls-- one on every stand. The guy two seats ahead of me caught one ball, and I missed it by a whisker. Sigh!Pic: RF hitting balls to each stand, after winningAudienceEven though seeing the great is in itself a reward, an integral part of live experience is being part of a much larger crowd. So I'll relive part of the experience. The match was supposed to start 7 PM EST, but due to previous ongoing match between Berdych and someone, it kept on delaying. It was clear no one cared, but once they showed Fed the first time on big screen outside, everyone started cheering Berdych to finish quickly. And from here, it was cheers for Federer all the way. Even as everyone settled in their seats, snippets of RF would invite wild cheers. But it became extremely cathartic, when he finally set foot and the whole crowd stood in unison for a standing ovation. An excellent thing about the crowd was even though they supported and hooted for Federer with "Roger", "Federer" chants whenever he won points/games, whenever Groth pulled off a splendid point the audience was quick to show him appreciation despite affiliations. And there was no negative chanting for either, so it remained a great experience. Another thing worth mentioning is the Mexican wave (which was interestingly started by just one person in my next lot rousing the whole crowds). When I'd seen football & volleyball live, the broadcasters encouraged us to keep going. Here as match isn't supposed to go on with noise, the chair umpire let few rounds of wave proceed and causing it to slowly fizzle by stern command like "thanks audience, time or match to resume". Overall the shared adulation for the great man made being a part of the audience a great experience. His victory was an icing on the cake.Pic: Me (I know I should've got a haircut) with RF in the background[1] I was for an interview in NYC, and figured last moment I'd get another day in NYC so booked resale tickets for next day without realizing I would be able to see Federer & Sharapova. Luck! [2] If you find a similar question on Sharapova feel free to send the question my way. Being a part of her audience has it's own quirks.