 Siddharth BhattacharyaNo one in the world knows the true meaning of our national anthem. The only person who did know (Rabindranath Tagore) died 72 years ago.[EDIT: The original question was 'How many Indians know the true meaning of our national anthem? followed by the same description as now]Having said that I knew the meaning you put up in the description from a long time. But remember at the end of the day this is just a theory. There exist various interpretations of our anthem- this is just one of them. What's true is it was sung when King George V and the queen visited India in 1911. What's debatable is whether it was written for them. All these conspiracy theories sound much more pleasing when we hear because it's different to what we have grown hearing. But that doesn't mean necessarily it's correct.What does "Bharat Bhagya Vidhata" signify? Without going through thousand possible interpretations of this sentence, I'd go with the most obvious one- "victory is in India's fortune". Every line we sing has a meaning which has a possible connotation in praise of "our motherland". It is left to every individual the connotation they choose while singing it. National anthem is nothing but a symbol. "The truth" associated with the symbol doesn't matter- partly because it can never be known. These symbols serve purposes. National anthem serves the purpose of instilling pride in citizens while singing it- which Jana Gana Mana does pretty well. It depends on the singer which connotation they want to choose. About the alternatives "Vande Matram" was proposed as the National anthem- but certain religious groups had issues with it citing idol worship(Maa Durga) connotations."Saare Jahan Se Accha" was written by Muhammad Iqbal. He was a great poet, was knighted just like Tagore but didn't die without his share of controversies. He was among the founding fathers of Pakistan movement- the call for separate nation. Every possible alternative has notorious connotations if we want to find one. Jana Gana Mana was the least controversial one at the time and chosen to immortalize our first nobel laureate Rabindranath, who in his patriotism turned down his knighthood. Any widely recognized symbol is bound to be marred by controversies.Conclusion about Jan Gan Man: There's no need to change it. Apart from the patriotism it evokes, the song has a wonderful tune. You can resent it by considering it a deference to British or listen with this video & feel the goosebumps. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Relevant Reading: What were some reasons why 'Sarey jahan sey accha' wasn't chosen as the Indian National Anthem?Should India change its national anthem? (Antariksh Bothale 's answer)