 Siddharth BhattacharyaI'm very fond memories from the first time I met a Nobel Laureate. Not only did I get to see him, I got a long one-on-one conversation with the winner of Nobel Prize in Economics in 2001. It was November 2011. ContextProfessor Stiglitz was giving a talk at Indian Statistical Institute, Delhi on the market imperfections leading to financial crisis in 2008. Even though I didn't study there, I was invited because I sat through an entire "Introduction to Game Theory" course. The attendance was only 50-60 and it was a small classroom, so we could all easily see and hear him.The Lecture and ConversationGiven his left-leanings it naturally had elements of it. When he was done, I was lucky enough to be granted one of the three questions. I asked some lame stuff on Occupy Wall Street movement and given his past association with it, he praised it's goal. When all was done and room was evacuating, I realized this is my opportunity. I wasn't to let go so easily. So I started speaking to him. To sound wise-ass I'd read on his theories on Information asymmetry, and gobbled everything I could on Keynesian economics from my multiple economics classes. However the questions I asked him were more or less what an annoying 21-year old asks on meeting a celebrity: "how I get there?" using economic and game-theoretic jargon to demonstrate my (genuine) interest in the field. The interesting thing is rather than ignoring my stupid questions, or rushing out he kept on answering my questions, engaging in further conversation on economics as well as path to delve into economic theory for about 30 minutes, till the peon would remind him of snacks and tea outside.Introducing to other economistsIn the lawns, he started conversing with another prominent economist: Jean Drze. What else: he even introduced me to him. And the dumb-head me didn't realize he is the collaborator of Amartya Sen (another great Nobel Laureate) on multiple works, as well as member of India's National Advisory Council. I was also introduced to Dr. Dreze's ex-PhD student and our Professor Reetika Khera, who had recently joined my college (IIT-Delhi). With a cup of tea, one samosa he sat on the stairs at the edge of the lawn (see pic). He said I could email any specific question at his email ID from his homepage. Dr. Dreze even gave me his Gmail ID (which I lost). Finally I realized I should let the stalwarts have their discussion while I should get back to munching free snacks. Pic: ISI Delhi lawns. The arrow is where he sat on the stairsConclusionProfessor Stiglitz flew to India, gave a lecture in a small college, answered questions, engaged in one-on-one conversation with an unknown boy for 30 minutes, introduced him to other leading economists and then sat on the floor. If the man has left-leaning, he is following everything he preaches about curbing inequality to a good extent. I'm not sure how many other Nobel Laureates have such modesty. PS. I did write him an email to which I didn't get a reply. I read the email again today, and I'd myself never reply to that kiddish (non-specific, generic) email. As I said, I lost Dr. Dreze's email ID soon, so rather than emailing him or catching up with Dr. Khera in my own college I updated on Facebook that I met a Nobel Laureate for the first time. Sigh, to be 21!