 Siddharth BhattacharyaYes and no. It's a wordplay, and depending on how you phrase it, it can give an idea of the intent. To begin with, I'd like to point out statements like this aren't spoken in absolute isolationism, but rather with a relative reference. So when someone says Asians are good at math, they probably mean:Given a sample of scores in all math exams, the highest scoring ones consisted of many Asians OR given a sample of students in a higher-education math program, we're very likely to come across many Asians. Asians perform better at Math than others. Asians are inherently better at Math.The first one is a statistical statement subject to verification of it's statistical accuracy. If true, it provides an interesting case-study into reasons for the phenomenon. Often, the reasons tend to be cultural- related to upbringing, resource- availability. If the issue is important enough, once we've identified the problem we can explore solutions. In the given example, we can explore reasons to why students from other cultures aren't performing as nicely in math exams. We can analyze elements of certain cultures which infuse mathematical spirit and try to design incentives to allure others as well. Interestingly, the existence of a culture which performs nicely can be used to provide the directions. So statistics like these can indeed be beneficial if applied correctly. The second statement is simply a logical fallacy- the very common converse fallacy. However it's the one used most often. Some other related examples- "in a sample space of criminals, a large proportion were black" is interpreted as "blacks are more criminal". Of the many acts of terrorism committed, many were done by Muslims is followed with the conclusion "Muslims are terrorists". These fallacious statements are spoken with the pretext of being statistical, passed off as logical arguments thus paving the way to the arguments of the third kind which are indeed racist and very harmful. Often it's difficult to note the difference between the first two. What we did here in essence was from noticing for a given trait, members of one community are likelier to belong to it (due to cultural reasons probably) we distorted it into classifying all the other individuals of the class to possess that trait. By doing so, we're ignoring the individuals' ability to choose certain components of their culture selectively. So even if Asian culture encourages focus on Maths than Arts, an Asian child can choose to disregard it and focus on arts due to individual preferences. Here is an illustration:And the third statement would definitely be a "racist statement". There are neither statistics, nor fallacies. When something is natural/ inherent, there's not much an individual can do about it. For example, if I'm naturally short there's not much I can do about it. Statements like these deny the possibility of an individual even being capable of working upon their traits when they're classified as being natural traits. Moreover it also imposes the characterization on the entire group, thus disregarding differences between different individuals in the community as well as denying individuals in each community the possibility of breaking free from the characterization. So if Asians are said to be naturally better at Math, irrespective of how much effort individual an Asian puts into his/her mathematical skills, (s)he will be classified as being good at math because (s)he is an Asian as well as being better than another non-Asian who might have polished their skills in math much better. How is it relevant in our world? Statements of the latter kinds become self-fulfilling prophecies into justifying oppression on certain communities based on logical fallacies. In a world where whites are seen as the progressive race and Asians as the model-minority, such stereotypes hamper other minority communities. Within the Asians, it creates higher expectations as well possibly. Since they're perceived to be good at math if they're as good as the next white person but not as good as the stereotype wants them to be, bad luck for them. At some level, it can also hamper white people if they're seen to be not into math as much as Asians inherently. The important thing is acknowledging any such aberration (if statistically true) based on race/caste/gender etc is a result of social conditioning rather than an inherent state. Not recognizing this leads to prejudices and unequal opportunities based on extraneous characteristics. On the other hand, dismissing a statistically correct statement as racist closes the door for discussion and improvement. Thus the standalone statement "Asians are good at math" may not be necessarily racist but jumping to any conclusions and calling it an inherent state will be racist.