 Siddharth BhattacharyaI find many answers till now- most taking a dig at the questioner by either sarcasm or rant. However I believe it's a valid question, and issues of nationalistic pride need not be needlessly dragged while reflecting on the concern.The problemWhen any community in an internet forum outnumbers other communities, it becomes a valid cause of concern. On generic questions, we may receive answers with which only the members of that community can empathize while others may feel left out. This community can be scientists, actors, entrepreneurs, Americans, (a)theists. One such community with the largest Quora population is- Indians. Let me give some reasons why this can a very valid concern: Questions such as "Which is the best X?" receive many answers which Indians can mainly relate to. Examples- related to Rahul Gandhi, NaMo, Bollywood movies and suchlike. Not all the answers come with excellent explanations of describing the choice to an outsider. As a net result, for a foreigner the whole experience can be baffling. (Picture: memes on them can be very confusing for outsiders)The demographics of Indian Quora is largely comprised of college students or young people in their early 20s. At our age, we hear a lot of opinions and are very vociferous about our own. Not all these opinions are well-researched and most times a reflection of what the media publishes.(very biased)Answers praising India in non-India related topics can turn on the upvoting instincts of our patriotic side and due to the huge numbers, distribute it to the feeds of users from other corners of the world.Some of us "kids" post a lot of memes, add irrelevant topics to questions, write funny 1-liners in serious questions and so on. It's not due to being Indian, but our age-group & high numbers play an important role. Most of the writers here are from engineering or running start-ups. We still have no military person, chef, prisoner, policeman, zookeeper- all of which can be found in writers from other countries- despite our high population. This makes the opinions lacking first-hand experience. Possible SolutionsOverall Indianizing may not be the best thing happening to Quora- however much the fact raises our heads- both for the purpose of attracting new users as well as for it's own commercial purposes. What can be done regarding it? Limit distribution: When Quora was released, only invited people could join- which is a prime reason why discussions on this website are so awesome. It can be done again. If Quora decides it needs to pander to it's Indian audience, it can send some invites to Indians from varied fields. Alternately stop new members until Quora gets diverse enough from all over the world. Spread to Europe: This is very important. Europe has an amazing history, an awesome blend of cultures, has been the home of most famous wars, has best competitive football and (well,before US)-the hub of popular culture. Currently it's the home of financial crises. It would be so much better to hear the experiences of Europeans on all these issues than having others write on these topics from our few travel experiences there/ reading. An exclusive focus on expanding in Europe would make Quora much more awesome. Since the population of Europe is anyways much lesser, it would be better to restrict new users from other spheres to give their voice a bigger say. When it has been done, Quora can have it's next public release.(Picture: Europe- lots of dormant awesomeness yet to be captured)My answer to Quora: What do you suggest to be Quora's main goal for 2013?Monetizing strategies in US, then India: This huge user-base in India maybe a waste for Quora if it can't get it's monetization act together. So once they have sorted monetization problem in their own backyard, they can test whether the same can be applied here. Being flooded by any single community can be overwhelming for a community which intends to be welcoming for everyone. In this case it's been the Indians- there's nothing racist if this becomes a cause of concern. These are just some ways I can think of which can solve any problems the current influx has caused.