 Siddharth BhattacharyaI beg you. Please upvote this answer, all my past answer & future answers. Do I ask for upvotes explicitly? Does it end there? Let's magnify into some of those links: Magnifying into the link which has been talked about in the question: Finally magnifying into the link I love upvotes:"But admittedly I'm a narcissist- I love being read & appreciated. I'm not content to be a submicroscopic speck in the vast functioning of the world & I want to know I made a difference while I leave. Upvotes does the trick."Have I explicitly asked for it in answers? Yes, in this answer:So you have got one part right: I do frequently "ask for upvotes". Do I always ask for upvotes? This is my last answer (before this) and here I haven't asked. Therefore we have a counter-example and hence the claim is falsified. Do I beg for upvotes? Notice the use of conditionals like "if" in my requests: "If you feel like exploring my further answers" "Want to extend your courtesy further?""Please extend your courtesy and upvote if you like" This seems like a humble form of begging. Begging differs in two forms: This conditional is missing. It's not like "if you like it, do upvote" but rather "please upvote". Irrespective of the person's liking. Beggars ask for favor out of compassion, not by delivering a service Considering Quora is heavily dependent on answers & my efforts are adding to Quora's repository of answers I consider it providing a form of service. I have indeed few examples of similar requests from the internet: From a website called LemonVibe stating: if you like what we have here, please like us on Facebook & follow on TwitterFrom our own Quora stating in one form: if you like what you see, please sign up to see furtherThese are in general called "marketing strategies". The service provider looks for "return on investments" (RoI). So my appeals for upvotes are closer to marketing than begging. If Quora is begging, I am fine with begging myself. So let's modify the question to "Why does Siddharth often ask for upvotes?" There are mainly two type of people: People who do what they like irrespective of returns- intellectuals. People who expect returns out of what they do- mere mortals. I clearly belong to the second category. "Are you feigning intellect?"No. I admit to being a lesser mortal- not an intellectual. Nothing worth feigning.Resonating words by Adam D'Angelo regarding sign-up requirement: "We require that people join because many who join like the service & end up contributing back to Quora, making it better for everyone. People spend a ton of time making Quora great by sharing their knowledge here, so we think it is reasonable to ask that others who want to get all the free knowledge here take the first very small step toward contributing back which is creating an account."I consider it reasonable to ask those who read my answers and like them to take the first very small step toward contributing back which is an upvote. It keeps writers like me motivated to continue writing and costs nothing to the user. Why I value upvotes so much? As said- I am admittedly a narcissist (I believe many are, but don't admit) who writes not just for the satisfaction of it but for the accompanying rewards as well. I've shifted from blogs to Quora for the readers. I'm not content writing without being read. I'm content only by knowing my answers have been read & appreciated. Upvotes is a signal of the appreciation. Moreover an upvote represents the standing of the answer on the question-page. And finally maybe some day these answers yield tangible benefits- upvotes increase my visibility to a larger audience. Why do I ask for upvotes explicitly? Many new users aren't acquainted with upvoting mechanisms. Reiterating requests for upvotes can often get them to upvote just like multiple mentions by companies advertising their product does cause buying. Conclusion: I'm a mere mortal who loves appreciation. If you like my answers, I'd again request you to upvote them. If not, no need to follow me. If they are still appearing in your feed, feel free to block me. But do respect my desire to work for incentives as I respect your right to ask this question which may have been considered "inflammatory". Also despite knowing you're one of those lingering in my hostel few rooms away from me (trolling), I respect your anonymity.