 Siddharth BhattacharyaGiven that many answers have focused on issues like inappropriate usage of the word "epidemic", effects of media-openness and our perceptions, I will try to answer what remains of the question: if the problem is so obvious, why isn't the solution out there? Initially a few socio-economic reasons on how it got there, and continues to stay so. Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs/ Priorities: Like it or not, the existing morality of a society depends on the surrounding prosperity and availability of basic needs. This doesn't imply societies with lesser would be more immoral, but simply they'd less inclined to prioritize these issues over ensuring their next meal. Even though India is beginning to bloom, and having a robust economy in the past few years for the majority of post-independence existence, India has been dirt poor. It is still dirt poor in most parts of the country. What this means is successive governments have had a lower priority on providing self-actualization to groups, and more on ensuring better agricultural produce and lesser farmer suicides. At the individual level, society has focused on stable lifestyle choices than focusing on an individual's desires which has often (unfortunately) meant the suppression and even oppression of various classes, most notably women. Gender Segregation: People especially from Western societies find it difficult to comprehend how minimal interaction is between boys and girls with an active hormonal system. Schools mostly allocate different seats for boys and girls, parents ensure their best to crack down on children speaking to opposite gender and so on. As a result, the other gender remains kind of a mystery to many grown adults who have been having sexual desires at the same time. This leads to intense desperation among many grown male adults, who now see woman as a medium to fulfill his sexual desires. Meanwhile the woman rather than being allowed to enjoy her own libido cocoons into protectiveness as a result of teachings of evilness of promiscuity, as well as hyper-attention they receive from all the single men (a huge proportion of unmarried population). Religion: India is a deeply religious country, with Hinduism and Islam as the dominant religions. Poverty and religion is a toxic mixture, as now the conservative practices have the assent of God. Lots of these have led to continuing the traditional acts resisting change as immoral. It is almost as difficult to convince a woman her (or other's) daughter isn't immoral for drinking alcohol, as it is to explain to the chauvinist man who assumes the presence of a girl on the street as a signal of availability.These points cover the variations such as patriarchy, objectification, entitlement and lack of ability to not see women as others. So why don't things change? All the above problems are pretty entrenched and worse, correlated. India won't become less traditional all of a sudden while firm religious practices exist, and they won't cease to exist across generations while poverty remains so widespread.Finally, as we're progressing the explosion of social media has brought the ugly issue to the limelight. As a result, it's now the top priority for governments to combat, but this is just the beginning and we can't just wish such crimes away at our desired pace. India is a democracy. Good intent or even same intentions can lead to paralysis. India has got a majority government last year, but that party is a minority in the upper house till 2017, so pretty helpless in passing ordinances. Traditional roles for women historically means very few women in police force, and this is one of the main things required. Even though women have started to break traditional barriers, and are pursuing this path aggressively now it will take a lot to undo the rigid norms and have a sizeable police force comprised of women. Easily, years.Even though young, educated Indian male becomes conscious of the atrocities faced by women and our contribution to making women's lives difficult by acts like staring, whistling etc, a continuation of desperation doesn't exactly solve the sexual tension. The increased awareness of rapes and rise of feminist movement has generated a subtle anger among many women, further making life difficult for the young men who seeks intimacy as he often goes through suspicious lens thus reducing his chance. This doesn't mean more rapes, but a continuation of the status-quo where males and females are kind of alien species to each other. Population: 1.25 billion people. Let that sink in. More than 3 times the population of the next populous nation- USA. The larger the population the higher the inertia and lesser the effectiveness of rapid change.There is change, the process has begun, people are more aware of the issue, it is now a top government priority but the process will take time.