 Siddharth BhattacharyaLogic in itself isn't dangerous. It's only dangerous when contaminated with fallacies and passed off as logical argument. Logic is respected because of it's objective nature- irrefutable, backed by evidence. However the domains in which people (including me) claim using logical thought are inherently subjective- few things are fact (logically true) but everything else is debatable even though opinions may tilt towards one side. In other words, fuzzy logic (probabilistic in nature) is asserted as crisp logic (deterministic) thus retaining pretext of "using logic". It works mainly when audience doesn't have a thorough understanding of logical principles. Such people are afraid to disbelieve arguments using "logically it follows" repeatedly out of the fear of being deemed illogical.Some examples of such statements are ones using the word "necessary", "obviously", "of course" without evidence: "We have no option left and it's necessary we go to war." [1]"Obviously God doesn't exist, else we would have seen him till now".[2]"Of course God wanted humans to be heterosexuals". [3]None of these examples are logically consistent but each is used frequently citing usage of "logical argument". Establishing "necessary"/"obvious" requires that all other alternatives have absolute zero probability (not low, absolute zero). By deeming some action considered "dangerous" as necessary, we unfortunately do away with the guilt which comes with the knowledge of exercising a choice. Similarly we've numerous instances of arguments using converse, causal fallacy, argument from ignorance for dogmatic purposes but quoted as logical: "Giving freedom to community X logically means taking it away from Y" [4]"All Y are terrorists because a Y was responsible" (Hasty generalization)"He argues X are smart. He's calling the people of Y inferior" (converse)"Our country has been losing out on resources. Their country has been gaining. So logically they have been stealing our resources" (causal) When can these arguments be dangerous? That depends on the definition of dangerous (subjective by nature). For me, it's when fallacious arguments promote violence, discrimination, hatred between people using the pretext of irrefutable logic and worse translate to action usually with the recourse of law. It's dangerous when arguments inconsistent with principles of logic are passed off as logical arguments becoming manipulative & divisive tools. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------[1] Going to war is one option. Not going is another- which can be further classified as doing nothing, diplomatic negotiations, international assistance etc. The argument can be logically valid only if all the latter options are void. (absolute zero probability). Due to the subjective nature of the domain (politics) establishing these probabilities concretely is impossible. However the same fuzziness ensures these alternatives have a positive (non-zero) probability. [2] It's insufficient evidence to claim God doesn't exist because we haven't seen him.Alternatives like God's unwillingness to show itself, our inability to see him etc. have positive probability & hence the "obviousness" of the claim is nullified. [3] Even if God existed & indeed disliked homosexuals, it does not imply liking heterosexuals. (False dichotomy) Much less "of course" want that.[4] Despite it's compelling nature, to be logically consistent it must establish that freedom between communities is a zero-sum game. Not assert, but prove. The beauty of logic is accepting only proven statements. Until proven, statements remain hypotheses. This is an example of argument from ignorance.