 Siddharth BhattacharyaCelebrated where? That's the important question. Others have suggested examples like George Washington being a slave-owner, Gandhi being sexist/ racist doesn't modify their overall accomplishments (democratic, peaceful world respectively). While true, these leaders genuinely contributed a lot and are perceived positively widely across the globe. However there are leaders with much less flattering records, much lesser positive contributions to humanity and way more harm who either enjoy a positive image in their territory or have policies against badmouthing them.Image: Warmongers with great PRs with sketchy human right recordEven Truman, Nixon, Reagan amongst themselves have led to loss of civilian lives in Japan, Korea,Vietnam, Grenada, Libya etc. Every country champions it's leaders who helps improve their lives, often neglecting hardships or crimes inflicted on who we deem others. Especially winning wars does wonders to PR of leaders. Even mediocre ones. Compared to some of the above guys, Churchill has a decent CV. Defeated Nazi warlords in gruesome WW2, saved Jews & Poles indirectly, was the last PM to oversee the nostalgic British empire. For all his negatives in colonial empires, he didn't create them but was continuing a racist tradition created by his forefathers justifying "white man's burden". Yes, he did have awful policies largely as a result of his racist views contributing to plight of many Indians especially in Bengal, during 1943 famine but then it wasn't Britishers who were affected, right? Churchill's task was to bring the best deal to Britain, and he did it pretty well. What's there not to be celebrated about it in Britain?You might ask, what about Hitler/ Stalin? They helped Germany / USSR as well. Of course they did. Except they treated many of their own people like shit, thus creating a faction within their own country who had great incentives to malign these erstwhile leaders. Also Germany lost the war, so German leaders literally had the best deal by seeking progress in partnering with the winners and forgetting the leaders who brought shame of defeat. In Stalin's case, power struggles made Khrushchev denounce Stalin to reduce his personality cult [1]. I'll quote a modification of the oft-quoted "history is written by the victors". Every country writes it's own history, propagates it and shouts from the roof. The winners can afford to be the loudest. The losers often have power struggles in aftermath leading to either desecrating the legacy of their predecessors, or join hands with the winners in return of economic favors (and winners want positive attitudes towards themselves as a pre-condition for help, which can be achieved only by destroying cult around losing leader than by glorifying them as a martyr). In Churchill's case, no British leader ever had the extreme need to reduce his legacy by quoting his wrongdoings in the colonies. Indeed it would cost them lots of political points, as none of his major atrocities affected British populace who'd otherwise be thankful to him for winning the war. So his giant legacy (and will) remains.So why is Churchill celebrated? He is only celebrated by people of countries who benefited from his actions, is treated indifferently by many people around the globe who haven't heard his name and widely hated by people from countries who bore the brunt of his hostilities. Just like every other public figure (with few exceptions). So why do we hear the celebration of Churchill more? Stop consuming UK/ US media, start consuming other ones and you'll realize a different worldview.[1] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_...