 Siddharth BhattacharyaConsider his resignation as a hedging strategy for his vote bank. Last few months have been very volatile for the party in terms of it's perception amongst voters, and he needed a strategy to contain any further losses. Arvind Kejriwal's resignation is a political statement signifying on one side the party's assertiveness to contest the Lok Sabha elections; on the other side, it's a statement to his voters of his frustration with the current corrupt system which didn't let him work. Resignation- when passed off as bullying into submission by big-wigs- creates sympathy amongst people. I've been restraining few days to answer the question so as to follow-up on his actions. His interview (People have emotional tie with us but there may be intellectual disconnect: Arvind Kejriwal) is worth a read whichever side one is on.This does not mean that people have left us. People have an emotional tie with us even though there might be an intellectual disconnect. However, they are clear that if someone can provide honest politics in the country, it is AAP. The man understands politics. He knows elections aren't won by ideas but emotions. Especially in months prior to action. That's why he channels people's anger against corruption as support for himself. With his branding as "the honest party", he has made it their USP. The party holds such a huge competitive edge in this single agenda that even while in power, they stuck to it despite alienating voters who found it "cheap gimmickry". Nevertheless there's a limit to how much noise it could create about other political parties being corrupt while in power, for everything it does would be under scrutiny itself. To gain more voters for LS, the strategy was a choice between letting its governance speak or playing the anti-incumbency card. However remembering that the party's USP is anti-corruption and not it's governance model, it was a matter of time before he called it a day to go back to anti-incumbency. In the brief cameo he gave, his policies tried to secure a vote base among the benefited classes. Governing longer and giving alternate agendas would be suicidal as it would mean division within it's vote-bank. The Delhi scenarioHis support among fellow MLA's had reduced- as the independent and Binny Kumar had gone rogue. In the face of dwindling support which could have been very shameful for the party, he resigned himself which ensured sympathy as well as managed to turn the tables on other political parties deeming them corrupt for not passing the bill. The sympathy along with possible Delhi re-election at the same time as LS would ensure a pretty high vote count for them again, possibly even a majority. Resigning was thus a low loss strategy.If you think you shouldn't have been seeing this on your feed, try the advice here: Muting topics on Indian politic(ian)s 