 Siddharth BhattacharyaI backpacked for a week in Thailand 2 months back, and though that hardly qualifies me I would still try. I visited Bangkok, Pattaya and Ko Pha Ngan. I found Thailand to be among the best countries I've visited. Some surprising things from the nation, which I wasn't expecting:Good infrastructure: As a developing nation, I was expecting the infrastructure to resemble Indian cities. But Bangkok's infrastructure really feels closer to London or NYC's than Delhi's. Even though that maybe an exaggeration, the infrastructure doesn't make it obvious being in a third-world country. Even the under-developed island of Koh Phangan (from an infrastructure perspective) is not that bad. Prostitution is illegal, but...: I'd read before on the legal status of prostitution in Thailand and it stuck me as odd, given the international reputation it has for this. So the question was- how is the law enforced? To my surprise, there is not the slightest trace of brothels so the law has controlled that part. I'm comparing it to Amsterdam's Red Light Districts which is in the city center, every passerby can see it and access (if they wish). However that doesn't mean it's not happening big time- it's just not obvious. There are too many adult entertainment options in Bangkok, Pattaya at least-- namely Go go bar, Ping pong show, Cabaret in strip clubs and so on. And of course, the Thai massage shops. With girls (?) shouting "massage" to passer-bys. I'm not sure how many of these operate as backdoor prostitution but the overall gist is- there is excessive adult entertainment without any legal brothels, although there are many girls standing alone by the beach who you can be sure are doing the same illegally. Pic: Clicked on Walking Street, PattayaLadyboys: Of course I knew about lady-boys, but the unbelievable thing was how many they are. I'm sure they outnumbered the "real girls" in these entertainment districts. Some of them are obviously not female, while for many it's difficult to tell. And lots of them are very humorous. For example, when I said no to his/her offers for "massage" they show me directions to nearest gay bar.Poor English: This one really surprised me. Given how much of the economy is based off tourism, it's surprising so many of the natives can't speak English. What's more surprising- too many in the tourism industry can't speak English. This was one of the main reasons why I didn't interact much with the locals. Excellent public transport: The cities had one of the best public transport options I've seen anywhere in the world. By public, I mean not private. In Bangkok, there is the amazing MRT, BTS and great rail infrastructure. And of course, lots of buses. Apart from that, there are the ubiquitous tuk-tuks (like auto rickshaws just way faster). In Pattaya, I rode shared wagons with fixed rates of 10 baht roaming across the streets day and night. Then there were the ferries for traveling within Bangkok. Inter-city transportation was also amazing. Frequent buses, cheap flights within nation operated by AirAsia, NukAir, Thai Airways. And I also took the over-night train to reach Surat Thani, from where I took a ferry/ship to Koh Phangan. The train was as marvelous as it can get in quality. Excellent partying scene, live music: Although I'd heard lots about it, I was still surprised by the awesomeness of it. The street off Khaosan Road in Bangkok has amazing live music till 1 am on the streets. Same with Walking Street, Pattaya (although that's not it's claim to fame) There is lots of partying going on the streets late into the night. Granted most of it is by the Western tourists, but still the energy on the streets is very welcoming and cheers the moods up. These are of course apart from the different moon parties in Koh Phangan, most famously Full Moon Party. Overall for street partying, I can't imagine a better place than Thailand. Even NYC doesn't match up remotely closely, forget the rest of US (except 6th Street, Austin). Pic: Live music near Khao San Road, BangkokOverall sense of lawlessness: This didn't surprise me at all as I expected it but it was mild surprise after realizing the great infrastructure, public facilities. Some examples are vehicle-driving (though nowhere as crazy as India) was way wackier than West. In Koh Phangan, before handing me the motorkbike for rent I wasn't asked at all for driving license although the guy kept my passport. Even in Goa, they ask for licenses. Of course, this lawlessness is apart from the street hawkers, hookers and everything related to prostitution which goes on.7-Eleven's: There are so many of them in every nook and corner of the country (I went to) that when asked for directions, they serve as landmarks. "Take a left, you'll see a 7-Eleven. Keep walking straight, you will see another. Turn right from there". So on. Obsession with white: Before going to Thailand, I didn't know their skin-color has a tan. However there are TV's with intense melodrama being played a lot, and all the characters are extremely fair. One (Thai) girl I met lamented her darker skin, but was happy she was dating a white guy (British). So I learnt this trend isn't exclusive to India.Conservatism vs liberalism: I know this can be different amongst Thais vs what is allowed for foreigners, but the overall idea is Thais show perfect respect for whatever foreigners do amongst themselves even if it may not agree with their traditional values. I know this is how it's supposed to be, but even in Goa it's not so easy to find peace for traveling as a Western tourist (at the least expect photo-ops).Con artists: Tuk-tuk drivers were expert con-artists, with lots of experience with ripping off tourists. Worse, they seem to have a network with stores, hotels, tourist sites, prostitutes and everything possible so when they're giving you very cheap rates someone else in the network is ripping you off big-time. Coming from India, this shouldn't shock me except I did get duped by one guy who duped me into paying 1500 baht for some Buddhist temples, which were less than 200 baht. There is expertise in the con-artist market there.Backpacker heaven: I knew I'd meet lots of backpackers, but the sheer volume of them was unexpected. I met so many from so many different countries, who have stayed there for years and love it so much at least for Western tourists Thailand seems pretty close to the backpacker's heaven on this earth. There is just so much to do-- including all kinds of adventure sports, beach activities, snorkelling, scuba-diving.Pic: Jet-ski with a British friend I met in PattayaExpensive: For a Westerner, it's definitely very cheap. 1 USD= 30 baht, so basically you get meals for $ 2-3 bahts easily. There are many hotels in Khao San Road around 300-400 baht range. So it adds to my point on backpacking heaven. However if I had to calculate my expenses as someone earning in INR, it could be bewildering for the prices are the same in baht as in rupees in India, except 1 baht = 2 INR.Cuisine: In US, Thai is my favorite cuisine. And yet, it was sort of difficult to find authentic Thai food in the cities except for Pad Thai. After searching hard for local markets, they indeed serve amazing delicacies with spicy sea-food. Amazing Red Curry, Tom Yum Sam, Massaman Curry, pork liver. Street food was amazing. Except...Bubble tea: It's my favorite drink, and going to SE Asia I was expecting lots of bubble tea places except I didn't find any (cc:Elynn Lee). This was one of the unexpected disappointments.Military intervention: With so many tourists all having a fun-time, one wouldn't expect a military role in government. But the military had got entire island of Koh Phangan shut down all it's moon parties, including Half Moon Party while I was there following murder of some British tourists. In general I figured military does have a lot of power.Beautiful Buddhist buildings: Ok, there is nothing surprising about it so that's why this is at the bottom as a compulsory addition. I expected amazing Buddhist architecture, found it. There are floating markets as well, with lots of temples on the sides. Overall it's beautiful. What did surprise me however was the numerous Hindu temples.Pic: Beautiful Buddhist buildings clicked from Wat Arun