 Siddharth BhattacharyaThis is a very good question. Discussing the issue requires understanding two important things: Education as a right & RoI: Subsiding higher education is not restricted to India. Lots of European countries have free higher education. These become good case-studies for need for public institutions or government interference in education even where students are financially well-off.Where the subsidies actually go?: Understanding the current subsidy structure in India.Addressing the former first. Education is considered high returns on investment for society. Not just in the form of visible returns like productive labor, but also invisibly as a moral, responsible member of the society. Due to the perceived essential nature of the commodity, governments around the world have debated whether privatizing it is a good method or rather engaging taxpayer's money. A major problem with privatizing education (irrespective of student's background) is with inflated costs (without subsidies) a larger percentage of population would opt to invest resources in lower-skill tasks- fields which landing a job quickly. This leads to an excessive supply of labour, leading to underpaid labour or high-unemployment. (unemployment is among worst maladies for government, as a productive but frustrated youth can easily be inclined to anti-social activities). (I don't necessarily advocate what the placard says)Higher costs of tertiary education- even amongst relatively well off- makes children dependent on their parents for the fees. In the West, it's considered good practice to forsake dependence at about 18 and higher costs of education definitely won't help there. In the Indian context (where it's highly acceptable for parents to be paying children's fees till end of college) the increased pressure on the family to compensate for the child may mean contrarily child having to compromise on the quality of education. Moreover with societal pressures & prejudices in India, many parents won't rather spend towards their children's higher education. Therefore governments tend to have a strong subsidy net towards higher education so as to churn more productive individuals irrespective of cost constraints subject to merit (that's why entrance exams). Where does subsidy go? It's also worth noting where these subsidies are invested. A major bulk of the subsidies are invested in fields such as engineering, sciences (considered high-skill labour). However within these institutions only a small fraction of the investment is towards subsidizing student's fees. A better picture would be obtained if one considers these educational institutions (examples- IITs) as merely research labs, where the scientists also dedicate a part of their time teaching students, who in turn pay for this imparted education. Scientific research with it's equipment & stuff needs huge investments and that's an area where private players don't specifically show interest until direct benefits are reaped. As a result governments become major investors towards funding research. This is payed using taxpayer's subsidy money. Along with equipment, of course there's the task of paying the researchers. A small portion of this net amount goes towards subsidizing student's education fees. ConclusionGovernments invest considerable sums of taxpayers' money towards higher education institutes- irrespective of student's (parent's) financial status. A majority of this is spent in just it would be in any research lab. The other small fraction is in ensuring cost doesn't become a deciding factor in a potentially productive individual's life while choosing their career path.