 Okay I'm coming into this with good faith and trying to engage with her video as art, since she says she intends it to be so.I was confused about her intentions as well, and I didn't find the video very erotic or even emotionally resonant as some art has done for me. The "turn" in the second half where it got violent was somewhat disturbing.Amid the great vitriol and whore/rape/slut categories of comments I saw in the comments section on that page, there were some thoughtful explorations of what the purpose of this video might be. That opened up the experiment for me a bit. After a few days of thought I've settled on the central idea being explored to be the ambiguities of consent and our role in grappling with it, as consumers and participants of sex.I don't give the "re-enactment" bit too much credence. At some level, OF COURSE it is, but that's just boring. She stands to distract from her message by calling it that. Her intent I believe is merely to use that experience as a template to illustrate the fuzzy nature of consent, how a consensual experience can turn unexpectedly not-so, and how a person might grapple with such an experience, and here I mean the audience, more than herself.Does the video's existence equate to us having her consent to watch it? If she made it willingly and uploaded it on her personal website for (potential) public viewing, does it still mean all of us have a right to view it? (compare with 'even if she's naked she's not asking for it...') At least one person said that the text on her website in sum meant that he did not feel she had consented to have him watching her video and so he was not going to. Instead he emailed her to ask if he could watch it. I count that as a genuine example of engagement and a specific human response to the art piece, though it need not be how all of us react to it. At the very baseline level, I feel she is saying that her making and putting up the video voluntarily does not excuse thoughtless viewing, of considering intellectual and moral restrictions that might still be applicable which we are to supposed to impose on ourselves and then live up to unsupervised by her or society. If that sounds like a simply ridiculous standard of consent, well then perhaps it is intentionally so - a way to shock a population that often has a ridiculously low standard of consent.The video also invites us to think about the rape we commit in the viewing. Taking it not quite literally, as a metaphor for the sexual violence the public at large allows by not trusting the lived experiences of women, the intercourse feels a bit like a challenge or a test. She says she wants us to not be part of her rape. By asking us to set a boundary for ourselves, she wants us to state a line that we will not cross, after what point we would say that we too as spectators contributed to the crime. This is especially resonant in the wake of The Fappening/iPhone photo leak. As just mentioned, one person decided it's not for him to assume any consent regarding the video at all. I thought that the male actor was a stand-in for me and other viewers. In that light, we had the consent to watch the video, only up to the point where the sex was consensual. This emphasizes the "ongoing" aspect in the definition of consent. If she is telling the man to stop, has consent ended for us as well? Should we watch no further? If we keep going to see the man keep going, isn't that a violation?The act of us viewing this video is a stand-in for the role the public-at-large plays in the life of a rape victim in the days and weeks and months forward. For me, my desire to keep watching the video equated, in some sense, to the male participant's desire to disregard her pleas for him to stop. Part of this I also read to be an implicit equating of audience and participant. When I think of how easy it was for me to keep watching, I feel drawn to understand that the male participant also viewed her in the same passive, objectifying manner, as entertainment on a screen, and the end conclusion of this line of thinking being that violation of consent happens when objectification sabotages conscious participation and turns it into spectacle.Lastly, I would make a aesthetic note about the 4 camera setup. I feel a grim sense of humor, or if humor is the wrong word, irony. What could be more atypical of the usual state of such nights, whose later investigations are frequently encumbered by lack of evidence troubled memories and conflicting accounts? The mood of hyper surveillance created by her choices in filming the video seem to mock standards of certainty, our rational insistence on requiring evidence before bestowing the victim with our belief. She seems to say - "If you had such footage of my actual rape, would that satisfy you? Would I then earn your unreserved support? I'm not so sure."