 Yes, the best primer on this is a 2013 investigation by The Hollywood Reporter (Animals Were Harmed: Hollywood's Nightmare of Death, Injury, and Secrecy Exposed | Hollywood Reporter Exclusive) that details several disturbing incidents that occurred during various film projects:Flicka: Ferber is not surprised by the allegation that the AHA is failing to adequately monitor many productions. When he attempted in 2005 to investigate two horse deaths during production of Foxs Flicka (based on the beloved childrens novel), he says the AHAs Film & TV Unit management insisted the deaths on the sets in the Simi and San Fernando valleys were unpreventable accidents. When he dispatched L.A. Animal Control officers to talk to the AHA, They told animal control to f themselves, he says. This is worse than doing nothing. This is like a cop not just ignoring a crime but helping cover it up.The end credit AHA ultimately bestowed on Flicka reads, without elaboration, American Humane Association monitored the animal action.Love's Everlasting Courage:a horse named Glass  known for his gentle demeanor, one blue eye and a distinctive white blaze of mane set against a shimmering black coat  was fatally injured when a runaway wagon really did lose control and the carriages crossbar broke (think of a pencil snapping), impaling the animals left hindquarter. He then went into shock from extreme blood loss and the vet decided it would be more humane to euthanize him than allow him to suffer, according to an internal AHA report.War Horse (film):Casey also alleges in her filing that in order to protect Steven Spielberg, one of the most notable and influential persons in the history of film, and because of the volume of press and other publicity this film garnered, AHA agreed to cover up the death of [a] horse [onWar Horse] and to give the 2011 film its No Animals Were Harmed end credit.The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian:On Disneys The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian, horses were repeatedly pulled for injuries  internal AHA notes from a single day show that 14 were out of commission at once. Yet it received the "No Animals Were Harmed" credit because, the organization now explains, none of the injuries were serious or due to intentional harm.There Will Be Blood: On There Will Be Blood, from Paramount Vantage, multiple horses died, including a couple from colic, which often is triggered by heatstroke. (Nine days before they died on June15, 2006, the AHA rep on set in Texas received an anonymous complaint that it is a very dry, hot, dusty and windy day, and the horses are not getting water.)Additionally:It concluded that 82 horses had been adversely affected while working on sets during this period  ranging from The Alamo to Hidalgo, Flicka to 3:10 to Yuma  with 58 injuries and eight deaths (collision with camera car, stepped on lead rope, impalement). Such extensive, transparent details about the reality of the on-set animal toll never have been shared with the public.