 character conducts her hunt with persistence and diligence. The conversations are spontaneous, the intentions of sex are effortlessly conveyed and the final moments of disrobing and approach play out in a hermetic mindspace and are intensely choreographed. With the eerie score pulsing through the final moments of each victim's life, the suggestion is one ritualized interplay, "kabuki theater" is the phrase that came to my mind as I first watched it. What does this movie say about the relationships between men and women, the buying and selling of sex, the pratfalls and predicaments of being a very successful sex object, the original sin of growing a heart and going under the skin? It's all rather slippery for me to say with certitude but I would still say this movie is a great one to think about.Man vs. Nature/ The Meaning of LifeThe Woman in the Dunes by Hiroshi Teshigahara - Based on the novel of the same name by Japanese writer Kobo Abe, this is a story of amateur entomologist on a weekend excursion to a remote area of Japan near the sea, on the hunt for beetles indigenous to the sandy dunes of the region. There is a small village, the only outpost of mankind for leagues, whose denizens share a cruel secret. When forced to spend the night with them, Junpei Niki is led by the villagers to the hospitality of a woman living in a house built inside a sand quarry. Lowered down by rope ladder and offered food and care by the woman inside, he settles down to sleep through the first of many years worth of nights in that house. For the hospitality was a ruse - the villagers have assigned the woman, and now him, the Sisyphean task of endlessly digging up sand and piling it into the waiting buckets of the villagers above. The job is both menial and life-threatening. The sand becomes the third character in this two-person drama as it is their only resource - they need to keep working to receive food and water from the village -- while also being a all-consuming force of nature, violating their house, their food, their bodies, and needing constant effort to clean up after and beat back. Junpei initially resists this forced enslavement, but the sand is unclimbable, unstoppable, and starts eroding his dignity as well as his possessions if he even tries to force the villager's hand by not working. As days become weeks, the woman he now shares this fate with becomes sensually appealing and an understanding emerges. Months pass as escape attempts fail and help from Tokyo fails to materialize. Indeed there is no sign that anyone seems to know he's missing. By chance he discovers a way to condense water from the damp sand and starts obsessively perfecting his technology. At the end of the movie, a viable chance to escape presents itself but Junpei decides he can stay a while longer, because he knows he can make a yet better water condenser. A final image from the scene informs us that Junpei has been missing for over seven years. As becomes clear over the course of the story, Woman in the Dunes is a sometimes-harrowing allegory about life, what we consider to be meaningful, and how oppressive agents and forces of nature beyond our control shape our destiny. While this may sound quite disheartening, the movie offers us at the end a vision for hope - offered freedom from his prison, Junpei rejects it for a chance to keep working on the novel device he discovered. The movie suggests that even in the bleakest of life situations, a man can find a thing to own, to work upon, to improve and master, and such meaningful accomplishment can feed the soul more than the hustle and bustle of modern city life with the usual social relationships can. Amid the dust motes of that intolerable sand, Junpei discovers a universe far bigger than the stars of the night sky.Walkabout (film) by Nicholas Roeg - After a middle-aged man with some issues goes nutso and starts shooting at his his son and daughter during a picnic in the Australian outback before killing himself and destroying their car, the two siblings are forced into the desert wilderness with limited food and water, searching for civilization. Visits to an oasis provide temporary respite but the hostility of the insects and assorted critters waiting for them to stop moving is constant. They meet an aboriginal boy who takes them on an adventure through his home terrain. A makeshift family of three forms with a budding romance between the girl and the aboriginal adolescent. It is not to last however, but there is much beauty and loss before their adventure ends and they return to their familiar suburban life. Walkabout is a primarily visual adventure that sets up dichotomies between sterile civilized life and the untamed excitement of the outback. The characters are all unnamed and assumed to be archetypes and what plays out is an allegorical story of the tensions between nature and society, the comical futility of attempting to tame nature, the misadventures stemming from a failure to communicate and how one can recapture the innocence of Eden, albeit briefly, when mandates of society are ignorable.