 All right, this thread seems a tad underserved.God & CapitalismUpstream Color by Shane Carruth - Mr. Carruth's sophomore effort is a shift from the circular time-loops of Primer to the elliptical visuals of mind-controlling worms and perilously blue orchids juxtaposed with the lives of two victims of a senseless ransacking of their lives, a trauma which connects as well as pulls them apart. To call it just an allegory of about higher powers and systems of economics would be unfair because it can be read as an allegory of depression or addiction, among many other possibilities. If one were to be inclined to distill these various interpretations to their quintessence - in modern life, the thing that fucks you up and the thing that's trying to fix your life afterwards are often in cahoots. Not getting into such barebones though, the allegorical interpretation that makes most sense to me is that Upstream Color is about Capitalism (the "Thief" in the movie) --- in the sense of a process that you cannot help but participate in (The "Thief" literally controls the bodies of his victims and forces them to perform idiosyncratic tasks for days before emptying their bank accounts and discarding them) --- dovetailing itself with a Higher Deity (The "Sampler" in the movie, who later beckons victims of the "Thief" and removes the mind-control worm from the body), to ensure that a cycle of fear, dependence and violence perpetuates itself, to the profit of both parties.There Will Be Blood by Paul Thomas Anderson - There Will Be Blood is the sort of movie begging to be called a saga. The movie charts Daniel Plainview's rise to the apex of the oil business and transform into a frankly terrifying titan of American-brand frontier capitalism, while Paul Dano in a breakout role as Eli Sunday is constant fly in the ointment as a preacher of a local community who senses in Daniel Plainview's ambition, an opportunity to parlay the fervor of his community's faith into a piece of the Plainview pie. Over a gripping two and a half hour hours, what ensues is an allegorical struggle between capitalism and religion. Interpreting them as such leads one to conclude that Mr. Anderson considers both ideas locked in an internecine conflict over the human soul, despising and wishing to crush the other, jealous and contemptuous by turns of the unique power that the other wields. How the end plays out for you depends heavily on the depths of your feelings about milkshakes.Femininity3 Women by Robert Altman - The context to know about 3 Women is that the entire movie is based off a dream Mr. Altman had while his wife was in the hospital. In a stunt unthinkable today, he pitched his "dream" to studio executives and produced 3 Women, a fable western where the women play russian roulette with feminine archetypes. The story is of Pinky, Millie and Willie - Pinky is a young woman of inane conversations of vapid interests, who finds a job at a health spa out west and ends up enamored of Millie, who is as grown up as she is not taken seriously at all. She considers herself a modern woman, with an apartment and a variety of consumer goods purchased by her hard-won salary, but who is ignored by men, as her flirtatious forays often ring false and her personality comes off as superficial. In this mix, is a mysterious third woman named Willie who is pregnant and spends her days tending a local saloon and painting vast murals of chaotic, demonic looking figures -- the stuff of myth -- in scenes of lust and violence and general catastrophe. Over the course of the movie, Pinky grows up and begins to behave more like a young woman akin to Millie, which threatens Millie because she's better at it that Millie herself, who is compelled to shift roles up from a wannabe cocquette to a parental figure, burned and grieved by the actions of the child. Imagery signifying menarche (spilled ketchup on an apron) marks such transitional points and eventually there is another exchange of roles towards an final synthesis of personalities. What I find interesting about this movie is that despite its professed origins as a dream, with all the lack of logic inherent, the plot tends itself easily to an allegorical reading of women in different stages of female life, growing up, regressing, trading places. Willie, the one woman comfortable in her own skin, is involved in a crisis at the end of the film that leads to a final scene of seeming resolution - three woman living communally, perhaps all three roles and minds and bodies now merged into one. Men, lurking at the edges or otherwise bodily aggressors throughout, have been eliminated from this collective. The final scene is the Mr. Altman's comment on how he imagines this would play out.Under the Skin (2013 film) by Jonathan Glazer - The obtuse visuals and lack of exposition in Under The Skin throw off attempts to neatly consider it an allegory about so-and-so, but it is definitely allegorizing something. Playing an alien that has assumed the form of an attractive woman and tasked with hunting and consuming men across Scotland, Scarlett Johannson's