 Hmmm, lets see:My choice; to be a size 0 or a size 15I wince a bit still for the moment "size 15" is spoken the image we see on screen is that of a pregnant woman. Would an actual size 15 on screen have been too radical a notion? This attempt at solidarity with plus sized women falls short of actually doing them the kindness of actual representation. The bigger problem here is the manner in which a smooth, linear quantization of women's bodies is proposed and championed. By suggesting that a woman is "free" to be span the whole range of 0-15, what Vogue is actually doing is exploiting a cognitive bias called Anchoring which is the tendency for humans to focus on the first piece of information presented to them when conducting a negotiation. This linear range offered "anchors" our expectations of how we can describe a body to a single linear dimension when in reality the diversity of human beings should need more than a single reductive number to describe it. This suits the capitalist commodifying needs of Vogue and the fashion industry, which wants standardized sizes for a) optimal mass production, b) setup a linear spectrum of attractiveness pegged to this scale and c) induce aspirational anxieties that drives women to attempt to hoodwink genes and nature in the pursuit of going up a scale that is not necessarily the best way to measure a body in the first place. Whenever a capitalist entity advocates for feminism, one can always expect it to enlist it in service of their capitalist agenda, and I believe it's important to be aware of that.The second problem I would mention is that it erases the experiences of many women who might simply have no choice in the matter of what size they are. There is a breeziness in the manner at which the choice of size is presented, as if it shifting from one end to another were a matter of dieting and exercise when many women might have have very real hindrances to ever achieving their ideal size. Things like diabetes, thyroid issues and even just genetics are real factors that real people face and can lock them out of realistically ever getting to a size of their choice.To have sex before marriage, to have sex out of marriage, or to not have sexAah, the big bogeyman that has everyone's panties in a bunch. Personally, I disagree with all the criticisms that people have assessed as applicable to this section of the piece. Because they all feel (in increasing order of what I have to say about them):too easy a criticism to make (adultery hurts people - duh?),the criticism easily panders to men who have internalized a fear of the sexually proactive woman and the sexual free-market that feminism and modernization seem to promise ("The whores are coming! The whores are coming!").they miss the value of asserting and reminding people of the idea that sometimes certain, particular women can be terrible and adulterous but there's no greater meaning in that than what it tells us about their individual personalities. Just as there is a certain sexism in the fact that women are shut out of certain criminal careers like petty theft, contract murders, racketeering etc, there is a sexism in insisting that women should not possibly be just bad people who happen to like adultery. If a percentage of men can be assholes, so should a percentage of women, if they so desire. So I don't like the idea of preaching to women against adultery. And if you say your plea was gender neutral, then duh, everyone already knows it's a bad thing to do, see point 1.they shut down any measured discussion of the sheer variety of sexual relationships found inside Indian marriages. This is a subject that is hardly focused upon. Open marriages are one example that other people have perhaps mentioned but are likely to be a minority. To get down to brass