 Hmmm, lets see:My choice; to be a size 0 or a size 15I wince a bit still for the moment "size 15" is spoken the image we see on screen is that of a pregnant woman. Would an actual size 15 on screen have been too radical a notion? This attempt at solidarity with plus sized women falls short of actually doing them the kindness of actual representation. The bigger problem here is the manner in which a smooth, linear quantization of women's bodies is proposed and championed. By suggesting that a woman is "free" to be span the whole range of 0-15, what Vogue is actually doing is exploiting a cognitive bias called Anchoring which is the tendency for humans to focus on the first piece of information presented to them when conducting a negotiation. This linear range offered "anchors" our expectations of how we can describe a body to a single linear dimension when in reality the diversity of human beings should need more than a single reductive number to describe it. This suits the capitalist commodifying needs of Vogue and the fashion industry, which wants standardized sizes for a) optimal mass production, b) setup a linear spectrum of attractiveness pegged to this scale and c) induce aspirational anxieties that drives women to attempt to hoodwink genes and nature in the pursuit of going up a scale that is not necessarily the best way to measure a body in the first place. Whenever a capitalist entity advocates for feminism, one can always expect it to enlist it in service of their capitalist agenda, and I believe it's important to be aware of that.The second problem I would mention is that it erases the experiences of many women who might simply have no choice in the matter of what size they are. There is a breeziness in the manner at which the choice of size is presented, as if it shifting from one end to another were a matter of dieting and exercise when many women might have have very real hindrances to ever achieving their ideal size. Things like diabetes, thyroid issues and even just genetics are real factors that real people face and can lock them out of realistically ever getting to a size of their choice.To have sex before marriage, to have sex out of marriage, or to not have sexAah, the big bogeyman that has everyone's panties in a bunch. Personally, I disagree with all the criticisms that people have assessed as applicable to this section of the piece. Because they all feel (in increasing order of what I have to say about them):too easy a criticism to make (adultery hurts people - duh?),the criticism easily panders to men who have internalized a fear of the sexually proactive woman and the sexual free-market that feminism and modernization seem to promise ("The whores are coming! The whores are coming!").they miss the value of asserting and reminding people of the idea that sometimes certain, particular women can be terrible and adulterous but there's no greater meaning in that than what it tells us about their individual personalities. Just as there is a certain sexism in the fact that women are shut out of certain criminal careers like petty theft, contract murders, racketeering etc, there is a sexism in insisting that women should not possibly be just bad people who happen to like adultery. If a percentage of men can be assholes, so should a percentage of women, if they so desire. So I don't like the idea of preaching to women against adultery. And if you say your plea was gender neutral, then duh, everyone already knows it's a bad thing to do, see point 1.they shut down any measured discussion of the sheer variety of sexual relationships found inside Indian marriages. This is a subject that is hardly focused upon. Open marriages are one example that other people have perhaps mentioned but are likely to be a minority. To get down to brass tacks, no one is talking about the the generations of women in their 30, 40s and 50s who are stuck in acrimonious loveless marriages. Marriages which might be violent or marriages where the spouse might just be sexually distant and unavailable (or simply philandering with the maid). Where the couple might not have had sex since their last child was conceived, which might have been a decade ago. Or even widows who are now expected to be sexless and partner-less the rest of their lives since their children are grown up and settled and why, after all, would a woman want sex at that stage? I personally know of people whose parents' marriages are in such doldrums (or perhaps 9th circle of hell would be more apropos). For women in such marriages, who have perhaps never given a thought to prioritizing their own well being over family appearances, it would be a vital and crucial idea for them to start thinking about having an affair with mutual consent with a partner that can make them happy.The overall problem, I feel, is that Indian people's anxieties about dating in the modern age tend to make them think of romantic coupling as (in part or whole) an adversarial endeavor while completely ignoring the great role adultery can provide as a pressure valve in so many hellish relationships among the older arranged-marriage generation which actually are adversarial and absolutely horrible and torturous. Fears of the other, darker side of the "Dating" system manifest themselves here - a shiny car we've (as a culture) started test driving with aplomb but neglected to read the operating manual fully. The solution is not to create an environment of self-righteousness about adultery as some kind of social insurance policy in case we're on the receiving end one day, but to realize that it is contingent upon ourselves to choose a partner and build the kind of relationship where it would never come into the equation.The rest of the piece is worth little remark except to say that it unfortunately indulges in the same kind of adversarial world view of modern relationships that I just advocated against. The problem being that the audience for this video would include women and men who broadly agree with its message but would take offense at the tone, as if the humdrum things being talked about, like when to have a baby or when one should come home at night is so out of the realm of possibility for a couple to achieve mature understanding upon, that it becomes a point of defiance and Amazonian courage. It talks down to the men and women it is primarily speaking to, with some bamboozling poetic fancies in the mix, and so alienates people who would broadly agree with what it is trying to champion. The gender equality issues that are a terrain of politics and negotiation within couples of the Indian middle class are, at this point, a little beyond the zeroth order stuff presented here. There is little talk of sharing chores, of the domestic work being respected as much as professional work, regardless of which spouse is doing it, there is little talk of pay disparities and the negotiations couples must have about who works and which city one lives in and whose career is best prioritized, how in-laws' expectations might need to be readjusted according the progressive values the couple might share, about the need to be each other's allies while doing that, what the effects of workplace sexism on payscale and advancement are, how simple things like lack of public toilets or streetside harrasment affect women's mobility. Brass tacks again! In centering the experience of women around their size, their sex life, their spouse and their snowflakiness, Vogue erases real concerns about how life is lived in India beyond the traditional domestic concerns a woman might have.