 and Nordic races, but with its Enlightenment ideals was headed in the direction of mingling and lowering the Anglo-Saxon race with the "garbage races" of Europe. Although racialist theories have been debunked, some of Gobineau's analysis is retained, used to argue that America fosters a culture of "blandness and homogeneity," while others complain that the amalgamation promised has not proceeded fast enough.Resistance to Modernization: "The breathless haste with which they [the Americans] work-the distinctive vice of the new world-is already beginning ferociously to infect old Europe and is spreading a spiritual emptiness over the continent." said Nietzsche about America industry, its mass production and mass industrialization. Later a disciple of his Arthur Moeller van den Bruck wrote that Americanness should be "not geographically but spiritually understood" and that it is "the decisive step by which we make our way from a dependence on the earth to the use of the earth, the step that mechanizes and electrifies inanimate material and makes the elements of the world into agencies of human use."Consumerism: In 1935, German philosopher Martin Heidegger (who previously had said that America waskatestrophenhaft, the site of catastrophe) wrote:Europe lies today in a great pincer, squeezed between Russia on the one side and America on the other. From a metaphysical point of view, Russia and America are the same, with the same dreary technological frenzy and the same unrestricted organization of the average man.But Heidegger believed that Russian Bolshevism was only a variant of Americanism and considered Russia less of a problem than America because there could at least be dialogue with Marxists since they had a sense of history, while America had none. What was essentially going on was that several strands of thought that were threatened by everything commodified and mass produced wanted to create an anti-technological agenda but since "technology" was not enough of a real thing for people to hate, seized upon the idea of America as a symbol for everything that's wrong about where progress was taking us. Heidegger went on to say:"Consumption for the sake of consumption is the sole procedure that distinctively characterizes the history of a world that has become an unworld.... Being today means being replaceable." He also cited Rainer Marie Rilke's thoughts about America:Now is emerging from out of America pure undifferentiated things, mere things of appearance, sham articles.... A house in the American understanding, an American apple or an American vine has nothing in common with the house, the fruit, or the grape that had been adopted in the hopes and thoughts of our forefathersOne may note that these ideas are common even today among people of all ideological inclinations, even those who would balk at being associated with the proto-Nazism of Heidegger.