 Nimesh Kiran VermaI believe, it is in the loneliness you speak to yourself !In my childhood days I used to be an introvert kid and therefore for the obvious reasons not at all popular. I used to be that plain vanilla boy who would sit in the middle benches of his class room and would endure the urgency of using washroom for hours but couldnt stand up and seek permission from teacher.  The times I broke my silence was when I had any emotional rush...Which was usually when I was hurt over someones remark or teasing.Yes I was like one of those shy classmate of yours.. whom you fail to recognize every time you see your old class photograph.I continued to be this till I was about 10-11 years oldMe and my family went to my grandparents place ( about 700 km far ) every summer. It was the 12th summer of my life when I was at my grannys village. I went along my father and few of his friends for an evening walk in the farmlands. After walking a few kilometers out of the village, I was exhausted. My father advised me to wait for him under the banyan tree beside the lake, the spot which we crossed few minutes before, as it is safe, till he comes back.I agreed and headed towards the tree.Exhausted as hell, I lied on my back and started watching the sky which was changing its colors towards the darker shades of orange and within few minutes the stars came out.This was the first time in my life I was all aloneall left to myself.No human soul around for a at least a km. My mind started bouncing over stuff which my eyes could look on, stones, frogs, lake, stars, moon, sky and finally landed on myself.I thought about my incapability of expressing oneself, and through the past experience somehow concluded that it is not good for me and from that day on I decided to express myself freely.And succeeded in doing so in few years!Many things (both good and bad) might not have happened had I remained that plain vanilla boy!Many years from that lone reddish dusk under the tree, I now again find myself all alone in a luxurious hotel. And more than the comforts of the hotel, Im enjoying my loneliness which again had made me realize that I talk too much and therefore should try to speak as little and concise as possible.A yet another life changing lesson!I think it is in the loneliness you speak to yourself !And me suggested me to be a spectator of life and not a commentator !