 Nimesh Kiran Vermamade an Epic fool of myself in front of my Childhood Crush and you could say that it was my greatest loss on facebook.I present to you the story as it is, which I posted on my blog. When your 'Crush', crushes you : Shit 1.0So you are busy shopping,with a peppy and festive mood,in your enchanting city of lakes,enjoying yourself and the evening,when you happen to eye-lock your childhood crush,in midst of a huge crowd,in about a decade,with a serene smile on her face,dimensions in time and length, both cease to exist,andyour heart starts punching itself with arbitrary torques,mind visits the isolated islands of past memories andthe bees & butterflies which you thought were dead by now,too visit their old den : your poor belly!And all these hammer you, after a good long period of 10 years, since your eyes last saw her pretty faceThe lover-cum-warrior inside you, tries to fight back, with the sword of maturity which had been earned over the past few years and finally succeeds in passing a dry smile.By which she is amused and returns a Do I know you? Bhaiya ! look.Your Eyes, like a culprit seem to be accustomed of this treatment ( probably a genetic curse or a godly boon ! ), almost in flash jumps onto a dummy next to her clad with the new and stylish HI brand bra.Counting every passing second, you move out of her site, admiring the semi naked figure !You remain nostalgic for the rest of the evening and almost the whole night, trying to sketch her portrait from the shades of the past.Kaleidoscope of memories starts rolling showcasing your movie in Eastman Colors.Reminding youOf the times you used to cruse through the sea of student after the end-bell of your school, much like a Spartan of 300 against the army of Zerksis, to acquire a seat for her beside yourself, so you could enjoy her aura for the awesome-st 15 minute ride to home.Of the time you gathered all the courage, as much as a 14 year lad could, to express you liking to her, and utter I LOVE YOU. in a span of about a minute and read the change of expressions on her face, to hurriedly add DIDI, making a fool of yourself in front of her !Whence you land into reality, you curse yourself for not walking upto her and making up any move.After thinking your brains out for the whole morning, finally you stumble upon a solution to lighten your guilt.Dedicating the incident a Life event status on face-book. ( After all we are the social-network generation ! )That awkward moment you happened to eye-lock your childhood crush in the midst of a crowd in about almost a decade and she couldnt recognize you! #BeardedInBhopalAnd tiredly returned to bed ( feeling a little better ) for the rest of the dayNow when you woke up and opened your Facebook account you noticed her like amongst the other 40+ likes and your mind whirls upside down, and within a second you received a ping from her:She: Hey I too spotted you, yesterday in the Mall, thought your where looking over someone !(Shit 1 : Assuming that she has made out about YOU LIKING HER )Me: It took me a hell of a time to decide how should I react! I know I made an Epic Fool of Myself, in front of you. Actually I regretted a lot for not coming up-to you for a chat, yesterday! And it resulted in the status! You did a great favor to me by not commenting But I spotted you at my status. Anyways Hows Life?She: Oh that status was for me?? Now Im surprised(Shit 2 : Feeling Naked and so vulnerable that you ask her out at that very  moment )Me: Actually I couldnt react When I saw you.. May be the bees and butterflies from the past erupted in my belly Anyways I might be pushing my luck too much here but still Will you be free any time on Mon or Tues or later, for a coffee etc ?? And above is not at all obligatory ! To which she replied None.(Shit 3 :  You are still waiting.  Either for her reply.  or  Your courage, to come to your rescue)AndYou Remain A FOR EVER ALONE !P.S : Later I found out that she got married a week after this conversation and probably was shopping for the same, when I spotted her. Though I made a Fool of myself but the following strip, prepared by  Zenpencils,consoled me a lot. Link To my blog : Cogito Ergo Sum