 Beards are a weird thing. Prized among many men as a symbol of masculinity, often disliked among women as a sign of poor hygiene. Did your endocrinologist ever check your testosterone? It might be low, so that could be part of the puzzle. You can naturally boost testosterone by exercising (short term) and decreasing body fat (long term). There isn't a whole lot else. Maybe, you just don't happen to have many hair follicles in your face, or they're wired in a way that makes it hard for them to grow. It's unlikely to be a lack of blood circulation or something along those lines.That said, let's make one thing clear. It's not the beard. It's the wearer. Beards only work because they advertise manliness in a culturally defined way, and possibly your confident attitude. But that's all they do.Your beard, or lack thereof, does not define you as a person, as a human, or even as a man. You can either allow not having a beard to take away your peace of mind, or you can be mature about it, and understand that you're just different that way. If somebody rejects you or mocks you for not having a beard, know that they are not worth your time. Good people don't disrespect other people without sound reasons.I am a lot like you. Not beard-wise, but I am a short guy in a tall world. I carried that load on my shoulders and in my mind for a very long time. Then, at some point, it clicked. I am short. That's it. That's neither good nor bad, it just is. I can't change it, nor should I try. My value as a person doesn't depend on my height, nor on what other people think of how tall I am. In other words, even if I am only 90% the height of my peers, I am still 100% human. And the question isn't whether you are a short or a beardless human being. It's whether you're a good human being. Be the best version of yourself that you can be. Lots of wonderful things will happen for you, I promise.Learn to love yourself and work with what you have. It's the only path to relative sanity in this crazy world.Thanks for the A2A, Anon.