 TL;DR: Yes, and there are two mechanisms that can make it happen.First, let's get clear on some terminology:Muscle: That's the big contractile organ, like the biceps brachii or the latisimuss dorsi. Muscle fiber: A cell withing a muscle. Contains many nuclei, and all the contractile elements, which are the basis for a muscles working.Motor unit: A group of muscles cells and the speficic neuron (nerve cell) controlling their contraction. In all muscles, a single fiber is always controlled by only one neuron, but a single neuron can control hundreds or even thousands of muscle fibers. The muscle fibers within a motor unit are all the same type. (more on that later)Myofibrill: This is a 'little fiber' within a muscle fiber. A chain of contractile elements, made up of the cellular organelles doing the work. A single muscle fiber contains many of these myofibrills.Traditionally, we distinguish three muscle fiber types, although histochemical staining has shown that we have around 7, with varying properties. They all fall along a continuum, however.Type I fibers are the most thankful of all. They can work at a low intensity for hours. Postural muscles are usually primarily type I fibers. Marathon professionals have muscles consisting of mostly this type. They burn sugar or fat, work completely aerobically, but don't grow much and can't exert a lot of force, nor contract very fast. Type IIa fibers are similar to type I fibers in that they don't fatigue very quickly. Similarly, they can burn both fat and glucose, and very importantly, depending on the demand being placed on them, they can release energy fast through the lactacid system, or help the body remove lactic acid. They contract relatively fast, and grow very big. Professional 800 meter runners have a lot of these.Type IIx (formerly known as Type IIb) are the fastest of the bunch. They contract fast, produce the most force per cross-sectional area, and fatigue very quickly. These are the fibers you need for short bursts of extreme power output, like a shot put, a 60 meter sprint, a vertical jump, or a hang clean. Their fuel economy is atrocious, however, and so, if you use these fibers often, without an absolute necessity for speed, some of them will convert to type IIb fibers. They can't burn glucose, only convert it to lactic acid, and tire out within around 45 seconds.There are two mechanisms that cause a shift in a muscle from slow-twitch to fast-twitch, and from fast-twitch to 'very fast-twitch'. The one we've known for a long time is almost stupidly simple. If you demand high-intensity, highspeed contactions, the type IIx and type IIa muscle fibers will grow in size, and therefore proportionally make up more of the muscle cross-section.What wasn't well-researched until recently, and still isn't well-known, is that muscle fibers can actually change their protein synthesis such that they make the kind of myofibrills that can contract faster, effectively making a type I fiber convert to a type IIa. This change comes from signalling mechanisms we don't properly understand yet, but in a nutshell, if you do high power movements with a strength and a speed component, and do so at a relatively low volume, you will cause the muscle fibers to change. They basically recommend various protocols to do so in the article, and rightly caution you against too much aerobic work, although that isn't a 100% rule. But that's a discussion for another time. And finally, having the right fiber types is just PART of your success in any sport, including power sports like sprinting. There are a ton of other things that feed into your performance, and both as an athlete as well as a coach, you do well to include everything in training, and not focus on one thing to the exclusion of all else.