 The three limiting factors are economy of time, geography, and money. If it's too expensive or takes too long (or too much money) to get to, it's out of the question. My ideal gym doesn't need many Nautilus style machines. I don't mind if they're there, but I don't need them. All I need are good, old-school barbells -with plates, of course- and dumbbells (ideally, the heaviest pair would be around 2x60kg), a squat rack and a bench. Maybe some bouncy plates for power cleans, but this is heavy fantasizing on my part. Apart from the free weights, I am a fan of resistance bands (with enough places to anchor them), weighted vests, and medicine balls. I would also like a TRX, wall bars, foam rollers, a Bosu and a gymnastics ball, boxes for plyometrics and elevated push-ups, and of course the space to do all my awesome calisthenics exercises, which can double as a stretching area.Speaking of calisthenics, an overhead bar with lots of space above it is a must. I don't mean one of those ergonomically shaped bars. I mean a standard overhead pull-up bar. Ideally, it would be a set of monkey bars, and there would also be a pair of adjustable dip bars. Rings for ring dips are are great too. A glute-ham-raise station is something of a dream for me.Finally, some good cardio machines for warming up or endurance activities in general.Generally, I'd like the gym to be spacious so people can do their work without disturbing -or worse- injuring each other. An area set aside for medicine ball throws would be great. The atmosphere should be friendly and open, but focussed on training. I like it when there are serious athletes training next to casual gym goers, a healthy mix of all sorts of people. It's especially important that the gym doesn't scare off women (or other gender minorities), and keep them from working out when they want to. The personal traininers around should be competent and compassionate, not a bunch of steroid-filled, agenda-driven duds. All the other folks working should be friendly and helpful too, within reason. I also like it when the gym sells high-quality supplements at a reasonable price, but that is really me being picky. I'd rather they don't sell anything than offer junk.Personally, it would be great to rent gym shoes at the gym (or hey, get to borrow them for free with my membership).The locker rooms and shower should be clean, well-lit and adequately large, just some common sense things. My reality is, that I train without being in a gym most of the time. All I need is a floor, a wall, perhaps a park bench or other elevated surface (stairs are great), and an overhead bar. Maybe, maybe, some light dumbbells. And that's a wrap.Thanks for the A2A, Kiran Kannar.