 TL;DR: Yes, you can. And it's pretty simple too.Let me start by saying: I don't care. I don't care who you are, man, woman, neither, I don't care if you work on a plantation in India, weave baskets in Algeria, or herd sheep in Scotland. I don't care whether your environment is rural, urban, or neither. I don't care if you're 10 or 60, I don't care what race you are, what ethnicitiy, who your parents are, or how rich you are. It doesn't matter whether you live on a plot so large it could be a micro-state, on the streets, or in jail. A truly determined person can get a workout anywhere in the world.Whether you choose to go the pure calisthenics route, or throw in some improvised or acquired forms of extra resistance, you can become functionally strong, powerful, fast, and big using very little equipment. If I were your coach, the only thing I would ask for is your heartfelt commitment to the journey. Talent and pre-existing skill are immutable, and therefore of no concern to us. But exercise should be like a good marriage. You stick with it 'till death do us part.'Before I delve into the 'How', allow me to give some "dos and don'ts".Do what you can handleIt seems obvious, but many people violate this fundamental principle. If you can't do an exercise right, you need to take your time and learn it properly before you run off chasing a high number of reps. There's no point practicing sets of 20 push-ups if you don't do them right. You'll only overestimate your strength, and end up hurting yourself, either acutely or over time. Learn the movement properly, and then work on making it yours. If you can't get it right yet, go back to an easier move, and work up from there. Be patient, and you will be continuing to get strong for many years to come.Do challenge yourselfThe other end of the spectrum is also often seen. For somebody who wants to become stronger, going from 50 push-ups to 60 isn't all that great an improvement. Going from a single one-armed push-up to 11 one-armed push-ups, on the other hand, signifies a great increase in strength! On that note, when you're 'maxing out' with an exercise, i.e., seeing how many repetitions you can do in one go, stop the set when your technique deteriorates. Practice makes permanent, and if you practice less than stellar technique, that's what your body will learn and cement. Inviting sneaky injuries was never easier.Do 'milk' every ExercisePeople are often in such a hurry to progress from one exercise to another (or one weight to the next) that they don't get all the benefits they could from an exercise. While I don't advocate doing hundreds of push-ups, there's an obvious difference in barely surviving 20 push-ups, and being able to breeze through confidently. Work towards that confidence with your weight/rep goals, as this also gives your joints and tendons the time to adapt.Do learn to improviseTo people working out at home, especially when on a low budget and working with mostly calisthenics, being creative is the bread-and-butter of training design. You need to learn to work with what your surroundings provide you and make the best out of it.Don't rush the PaceDynamic exercises, have a negative phases (lowering), one or two hold phases (isometric), and a positive phase (raising). You may lower yourself fast or slow, but it must ALWAYS be under control. Depending on the exercise, you are either meant to pause at the bottom for a moment, or bounce back up directly. This action too, must be controlled. As a rule of thumb, when training for strength, you are steering every single moment of the exercise. Take 2 seconds for moving up and down, wait for 1 second at the top of the movement, and where applicable, wait for 1 second at the bottom as well.Don't forget the BasicsEspecially when it comes to calisthenics, you don't want to forget the basic three: two-legged bodyweight squats, two-armed medium grip push-ups and two-armed medium-grip pull-ups. Keep revisiting these exercises in your training every now and then. You can use them to fix problems that have snuck up. Correcting your pace, form, or cheating can be done here, without exhausting you. They also make great specific warm ups, so keep them in your toolbox.The StartWithout working with you personally, it's hard for me to assess where you are right now, so you will have to do that in my place. Work with the basic 3 exercises I have mentioned. Push-ups, pull-ups and squats. Of course, depending on whether you have some weights at your disposal (usually dumbbells), various exercises like presses, deadlifts and weighted squats can be done.Start out with exercises/weights you can do at least 3 reps of confidently. If you can't do push-ups, do knee push-ups. If that's still too hard, elevate your hands. Accordingly, if pull-ups are too hard for you, do them off of a bar that's between chest and knee height, keeping your heels on the ground.Finally, if a full two-legged squat is too much for you, grab on to a table or similar object and start from there.Here are some answers on Quora to help you get to your first reps of said exercises (and beyond):Push-ups:Sed Chapman's answer to How can I learn how to do press-ups gradually?Pull-ups:How do I increase my level of pull ups step by step?Squats:Bhavesh Aggarwal's answer to What are some body weight leg exercises?ContinuingWhen it comes to increasing your strength, size, and fitness 'Progression' is the name of the game. If your workout isn't challenging you, you're not going to adapt. Apart from those basic three exercises, you might find it useful to do some specialized core work. People often do crunches till they nauseate, but I don't like them, as they don't build much abdominal strength. You're better off doing things like planks, side planks, sit-ups and leg raises. I personally think you don't need to incorporate abdominal exercises until you're capable of doing a push-up, a pull-up, and two-legged squat, as these will work your core too, just not as the main focus of your exercise. As you progress with sit-ups and the like, you will want to find ways to make them harder. Planks can be made harder by lifting your limbs off the ground (or putting your feet on an elevated surface), while leg raises can be made harder by hanging from a bar. Sit-ups can be made harder by making them unilateral, holding out your arms and holding on to weight. Here is a more detailed explanation for sit-ups:The Sit-Up revisited by Bhavesh Aggarwal on The Quora Gym v.P.Note that while good core exercises will give you strong abdominal muscles, you won't get a visible six pack from doing them. You'll need to lower your body fat percentage to at most 8-12% to do that. You will also want to do exercises for your back (and in fact the entire muscle chain starting from the back of your head down the back and butt all the way to the muscles in the soles of your feet. I would also advise you to only worry about those once you've gotten a goot bit of progress on the basic three movements above (and any dumbbell versions you may do), as they will give you a good foundation to work off of. You'll find some good exercises here:Train that Posterior Chain by Bhavesh Aggarwal on The Quora Gym v.P.For the legs, my first link details the full A-Z of training. Here are more answers/posts to advance with upper body training:Pull-ups:Bhavesh Aggarwal's answer to How can one best train to do a one-armed pull-up?Push-ups:Bhavesh Aggarwal's answer to How many push-ups should I be able to do before moving on to one-armed push-ups?Handstand Pushups by Bhavesh Aggarwal on The Quora Gym v.P.What is the best way to build muscle in upper-body and arms through push-ups?Putting it togetherSo now that we've covered the basics and some progressions, how do you go about this all?TrainingAt the beginning of every training session is the warm up. Jog for 800 meters, or do a few dozen jumping jacks. Swimming, biking climbing, all of the low intensity activities that elevate your heart rate are ideal for this phase. This will get your circulation up and running, warm up your muscles, and mentally put you in the zone. After the intial warming up, continue with dynamic stretching. Here's a list of stretches you can do:http://www.brianmac.co.uk/dynami...Do not static stretch before your sessions! Ideally, do static stretching around 3-4 hours after your workouts, or on the days you're not working out.Once you've warmed up with low-intensity stuff and some dynamic stretches, do 2 warm up sets with low reps of an easy exercise. For example, if you're practicing push-ups on that day, do 2 sets of 6-8 knee push-ups a few minutes before the main training. This will activate the right muscles and nerve cells, and increase blood flow to the working muscles. This part of the warm up is probably the most important!Main TrainingNow that you're warmed up and primed, do the main exercise(s) for the day. I advise you do to skill training at the very start, like when working on handstands. Follow this up with your strength stuff. In our example, this could be pike push-ups, or regular push-ups, or even a completely unrelated exercise like squats.Structure your work so that your main movements like squats and pull-ups are first, and things like core training, grip work and and calf training are last. In other words, things that involve many muscles as movers go first, those with fewer muscles (and smaller muscles) go after that. This is why you should also do your leg work before your upper body work on a specific day.Looked at over the week, as a beginner, 3 full body workouts on non-consecutive days are best. For example Monday, Wednesday, Friday, rest on all the other days. Every 8-12 weeks, plan in a week where you don't do as much strength work. This helps avoid pain, keeps you fresh, and can even kickstart your progress on a lift or exercise that has been stagnating.Once a year, take off two or three weeks entirely from exercising. Reps, Sets, RestOne thing many people ask is: How many reps and sets should I do? How much do I rest between sets?The answer is, as so often, "It depends." It depends on whether you want mostly strength and little size, size and strength, size, or endurance. Here are some rough guidelines on the matter, plus diet advice:Bhavesh Aggarwal's answer to How can a very skinny, 24 year-old grow muscles?When training for pure strength, keep the breaks long, 2-5 minutes. The more you're working on size or even endurance, the shorter the breaks become. I recommend you to read up on the subject. Books like 'Starting Strength', 'Convict Conditioning (1,2&3)', and many other will go a long way in providing you guidance where nobody else can. Look around and you'll find stuff that fits your situation. Apart from strength, you need to work on tissue quality, conditioning, and mobility. I will not go into these subjects, because there is A LOT of info on the net for free.And finally, here's my last bit of advice. You can improvise weights with a ton of different things in your environment. Milk cartons, rice bags, other people (particularly babies). For example, coming back to the shepherd in Scotland, grab a lamb and do your squats with it on your shoulders. As the lamb grows bigger, you become stronger. For some more ideas, here's a website to help you with makeshift weights:How to Make a Homemade Weight SetRemember that sand can be replaced with pebbles, and pebbles can be replaced with coins for added weight. Hat tip, Coach Ellis.