 I wrote this as directed to my 13-year-old self, but it rings just as true for all of my early teens.Milestones aren't metric by Bhavesh Aggarwal on Indo-Swiss PotpourriI wake up confused. I know where I am, but it's not where I should be. "Why is there fog inside a room?", I groan."Don't know", says a familiar voice.I look up, and can't believe my eyes. Standing in the middle of my pre-school's living room is thirteen year old me. Both of me look at themselves and back at the other one. "Are you..", he trails off into shocked silence."Yeah, pretty much, kid. I'm you."His eyes display a glint of disappointment. "Sorry to dash your hopes, but this is how tall you'll get. Don't worry, though, you'll get used it." I sound more sarcastic than I meant to. His, my, pimply face contorts slightly with anger. Yep, that's me. Don't even like losing to myself. "So you're future me, huh? How old are you? What happens between now and where you are right now? And how did we even get here?"Dammit, did I really ask so many questions then? Is it okay if I am mean to myself?I take a deep breath, decide to be patient, and help him."Yes, I am future you. I am now 23 years old. Lots of things happen between you and me. And I have a theory on how we came to be in the same room.""How will you get back, then? And how will I get back?""Calm down. Most likely, there's a logical explanation for this. But if I say it out loud, we'll be ripped back into our times, so let's instead make the most of this meeting. I am not going to tell you every single thing that's going to happen. I will tell you a few things to do and keep in mind. If you don't, you have nobody to blame but yourself.""Okay, tell me.""First, wash your face twice a day with soap, and don't forget to moisturize. Second, drink more milk, and eat more. Cut out the butter.""This is boring. You sound like Mom and Dad." "Patience, little one. You're becoming a man slowly, and there are some things you need to do now to make sure you become not only a good guy, but a great one.""Okay, I am listening. What more?""Come to terms with the fact that you're black. Some will try to mock your for it. But if you accept it, and become proud of it, they'll be afraid of you and your confidence, and not so quick to pick on you.""Really? You remember that I get insulted because of it often, right?""Exactly", I say, "that's why you need to make it something you enjoy hearing. Trust me, people will try to take it away from you when they realize it makes you stronger.""Alright." I can hear that younger me is unsure about this one. Fool."In school, don't