 For strong ankles, you need to focuse on a couple aspects.Mobility/FlexibilityStretch your calves and shin muscles between training sessions, and do dynamic stretches for the calves before your sprint workout. The dynamic stretches not only increase your range of motion instantly (although impermanently), they also improve their reflexive response, which you're looking for when sprinting.Also, foam roll your calves and the soles of your feet. You can use a tennis ball for both.Dorsiflexion/PlantarflexionMany coaches confuse their sprinters by cueing them to 'dorsiflex the foot', which means decrease the angle between the foot and the shin. Actually, the foot is held slightly plantarflexed (foot/shin angle increased to a little bit above 90 when you are in full stride), and the toes are pulled up. That creates stability in the ankle, but also triggers the stretch reflex you need, as well as fast heel recovery. Keep in mind that a lot of things happen in that very short amount of time your foot is planted on the ground and your glutes and hamstrings are exherting forces. During ground contact, you pull with your glutes and hamstrings, you stabilize with your quads, and you push off with your calves.* This is true in all phases of the sprint, from start to finish. The difference is in shin angles, point of contact upon touch down (toes or ball of foot), and heel recovery.*To clarify, if done right, none of these actions is exactly conscious. You're aware it's happening, but it should happen on its own. That said, you might have to practice this a little before it becomes automatic. Sometimes, the right cue can fix the problem instantly.Strengthening AnklesThis is where the rubber meets the road. Or should I say the spike plate meets the track? har harThe most important exercise sprinters can do to strengthen the muscles, tendons, and ligaments in the ankles and the feet (trust me, that small tissue in your soles is crucial for sprinting) is rope skipping. Barefoot, preferably on grass, even better is sand. Do 200 reps, rest a minute, do another 200, for maybe five sets total. Remember to stay on the balls of your feet, don't bend your knees in the air, or on the ground, and leave the ground as quicky as possible. Switch to doing these on one leg, after some time, and also do lots of double unders (swinging the rope through twice within one jump). When doing double unders, again, leave the ground quickly, and don't bend your knees.Good luck.