 Taken from my answer:How do I increase my level of pull ups step by step?First, do vertical pulls:Work up to 2-3 sets of 30-40. This should be fairly easy for you.Horizontal pullsThese are a hard variation, but still a lot easier than a real pull up. Work up to 2-3 sets of 15-20. You can probably get away with doing fewer, but I still recommend you get at least 3 sets of 12.Chin upsThe chin up is the slightly easier brother of the pull up. The trick is to turn your palms to face towards you. This puts a little more load on the biceps than the lats and the posterior deltoid muscles, so most people have fewer problems doing them. You will find that you can do typically around 20-30% more chin ups than pull ups. NegativesSometimes, even though you can do a good number of horizontal pulls, you may fail to do a single chin up/pull up. Negatives, or eccentrics can help you get the necessary stimulation to finally bust out your first rep(s). Using your legs, a chair or a relatively low bar, get up into the top position of a pull up, and lower yourself as slowly as you can. Go back to the top position and repeat. You will soon gain the strength necessary to do pull ups and chin ups.Half RepsMany coaches dislike half reps, saying they build 'only half the strength', or that they don't translate well into the full rep. In my experience, these are both inaccurate. There are some individuals who do benefit from half reps, especially on the psychological front. Somebody who was always wanted to a pull-up and has now learned to do half of one will feel more rewarded than doing a negative pull up. If you can do half a pull up, train those together with negatives. You're likely to get to your goal faster.IsometricsYou can also practice an exercise by holding certain positions you attain in the process of doing them. For example, getting into the top position of a pull up, spend some time 'up there' before you come down. Do the same in the position where your arms are about parallel to the ground, and at the bottom position. You will get a feel for the entire pull up and build strength.GripSed Chapman often says one of the key reasons people can't do many pull ups or chin ups is their grip. This is especially a problem in the early stages, when you're capable of doing perhaps 4-5 reps. Try hanging from the bar for a while, without moving, to train your grip. If that becomes easy, decrease the number of fingers, or try to hold on with just one hand, working up to perhaps a total time of 3 minutes. Once you can confidently do that, your grip might well be the strongest aspect of your pull up.Transmission of force to the rest of bodyUsually, when you're watching a video on YouTube with a shirtless dude, the advice is going to be some sensationalist poppycock meant to make you buy a product. Here's a counter-example. Take it away, Jeff:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Maintain TensionSqueezing the glutes and the back will also help you do more pull ups and do them more easily. It's also important to train your core. As a rule of thumb, you should be hanging more like suspended pencil than a slab of meat.Increasing Reps with KippingNormally, you would want to do your pull ups strict and without any lower body movement. If you have reached your limit in the set, however, and want to do more pull ups, you can kip to get more repetitions under your belt. Over time, you will be able to do more repetitions without kipping. Never count the kipped reps as normal pull ups if you are keeping a training log, make a special note. Also beware that kipping might exacerbate shoulder and elbow problems, so please be wary of joint pains.Strength Pyramid HacksSuppose you are able to do a few pull ups with good form. After you have warmed up, do the first set with e.g. a 1kg kettlebell hanging from your foot, or a medicine ball stuck between your thighs. You will naturally do fewer reps. However, after resting a few minutes, come back to the pull ups and do them without the med ball/kettlebell, and you will be able bust out pull ups with better form and they will feel much lighter, possibly enabling you to blast right through your former max.Source for the top two exercises and their rep recommendations:Convict Conditioning 1All the best.