 Yes, you can always go the calisthenics route. Push-upsPush-ups build the chest, anterior deltoids, and triceps. They can be made harder by lateralizing and eventually doing them one-armed, as well as by raising the legs. Pull-ups Pull-ups are the yang to the yin of push-ups. They train the lats, the muscles around the scapulae, the rear deltoids, the elbow flexors, and the grip. If you do chin-ups, some of the work of the lats is transferred to the biceps instead, and so it will be more arm-oriented than a pull-up. Progress with weights, or work towards making them one-armed.Dips Dips work the chest, shoulders, and triceps, much like the push-up. They can be considered a harder variation of the same, and therefore lead to more arm size. Do these very cleanly, however. Once your technique breaks down, the set is over. Anything else is an open invitation to shoulder problems.Planche Push-upsPlance push-ups are really tough. They're way harder than dips, because of the leverage. They hit the same muscles as dips. Additionally, they will train your fingers too. Don't even attempt these until you've worked up to a planche first.Handstand Push-upsThe handstand in itself is a pretty decent isometric deltoid, upper chest trapezius, tricep, grip, and core/spinal workout. Going up and down adds a completely new dimension of strength requirements to it. If you can't do handstand push-ups yet, do pike push-ups, with increasingly elevated feet. You don't need to do handstand push-ups free-standing, by the way. Do them with your feet against the wall. We're training for strength, not for acrobatics. If the two-handed handstand comes easy to you, work on making it one-armed. Incidentally, a complete rep of a one-armed handstand push-up has never been caught on tape. Maybe you'll be the first to get there?Muscle-upsThe ultimate complete upper body exercise known to man, bar none (pun intended). The muscle-up is a mixture of a pull-up, a leg raise, and a straight bar dip. I uses all of the muscles involved in those movements, and also adds a speed/power component to your upper body work. You should be solid on pull-ups and straight bar dips first, however. Practice clapping pull-ups as a transitional exercise first. Be careful about this move. It's impressive, but you can hurt yourself really badly if you try it without the prerequisites being in place.Simply hang from a bar, and pull yourself up and backwards, past the bar, flick your hands forwards on the bar, and push yourself up so that your upper body is above the bar, and the hips are below it.Demonstrated on rings here, but the same principles apply.Adding a little bit of weight in the form of a bag filled with books (sand, stones, etc.) to some of these exercises helps a lot. You can do them without any extra weight, however.Images from Google.