 The kip-up is arguably the ultimate spinal and hip agility move. Don't let that fool you, however, it requires the entire body. There must be no weak links.You will need:1. MobilityYour spine, hips, abdminal muscles, wrists, shoulders, knees and ankles need to have their full range of motion. If not, injuries are bound to occur.2. StabilitySimilary, your core should be stable and withstand the forces you are inevitably going to exert and the impacts you will experience.3. StrengthYour back, gluteal, shoulder and arm muscles will have to produce lots of force. They will also have to do this in a very short time, so of course 4. Speed will be of the essence too.Prep ExercisesBefore you start practicing for a kip-up, there are some moves you should nail as prerequisites to do a kip-up. Lying Leg RaisesTo make the most of your reflexes, you need to roll up fast. That requires decent abdominal strength and hamstring flexibility. Lying leg raises will get you there, for both aspects. Work up to 3x20 leg raises.BridgesBridges work almost the entire back of your body. They also stretch out your front abdominal muscles. A good kip-up requires precisely the kind of mobility and strength in the specific muscles that bridges build for you. Distribute the curve along the entire back, don't just focus it on the lumbar spine. Around 2x15 bridges should suffice.Pike Push-Ups/Handstand Push-UpsThe kip-up requires you to push your entire body upwards, so you want to build the strength in your shoulders and arms to do that safely, confidently and quickly. Pike push-ups, and their full body counterpart, the handstand push-ups are just the thing.Keep your hands directly under your shoulders, and don't allow your elbows to flare out. The handstand push-ups can be done against a wall. For pike push-ups, around 2x15 is great, and even better is 2x5 handstand push-ups. Head to the ground and all the way back up, anything less is not full range of motion.Specific TrainingHere's how you do a kip-up. Sit down, feet out in front, knees slightly bent. Bring your back down quickly, placing your hands besides your ears and pull your knees up to your chest as fast as you can. This will whip you onto the upper back and hands. When you've reached maximum flexion of your body, push hard through the hands, and still keeping your knees bent, kick your feet upwards. This will create the air time for you to whip you hips up, then place your feet on the ground, and finally pull your torso towards them. Stand up from this squatting position. Remember that a kip-up is both a power feat as well as a skill. As such, even if you have everything else dialled in, getting the sequence right is crucial to success. You should always practice kip-ups on a soft surface, grass is ideal. When starting out, train the kip up on stretch of grass that has an incline, with your hands higher than your feet. Over time, find a less steep section, and eventually, you'll nail the kip-up on flat ground.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...I am able to do kip-ups, but I wouldn't consider myself a master of the skill yet. First of all, I am nowehere close to achieving one every time I try. Second, the arc of my back is not very pronounced, a direct result of me not getting enough air time, on account of lacking pushing strength and hip thrust. This in turn, affects my landing (very broad stance, a narrower stance makes it harder) and also in what direction I lean when I stand up (backwards in my case, which causes me to backpedal to keep my balance).Once you can do a clean kip-up with a good arc, a secure landing and a narrow stance, you can try the same thing with straight legs. Much tougher, much more rewarding. Ultimate mastery of the kip-up consists in doing it with straight legs, your feet already resting by your ears, a narrow stance upon landing, no backpedaling and your arms crossed in front of your chest. It will take lots of practice and hard work to get there someday, but if you become good at doing the standard version, you should get to the ultimate kip-up with smart and hard work. Can you do it on a decline with your head lower than your feet someday?Good luck!