 Nope. Dips are a great overall pushing exercise (if performed correctly), where your chest, triceps, and front deltoids get to do most of the work, in that order of importance. Triceps can also become the prime movers if you maintain a vertical torso.However, they can't match a military press in terms of pure shoulder engagement. Not a chance. The military press engages primarily the front deltoid, the lateral head as a synergist, and even the rear deltoid at the very end of the motion (near lockout). The degree of recruitment of the various heads also depends on how wide your grip is. The narrower, the more you're focused on the anterior deltoid, the wider, the more the lateral and rear head get involved. Be careful about going to extremes, however, as elbow and shoulder problems can arise from execessively wide grips (or behind the neck variations, the nightmare of a lot of physical therapists and orthopedic surgeons). If you're looking for a bodyweight alternative to the millitary press, I recommend the handstand push-up. Do pike push-ups first, and place your legs on increasingly higher objects. Your torso must always be vertical, or very close to vertical. Eventually, you can work on doing the handstand push-up against a wall. For an increase in challenge, you can work on lateralizing them, use a resistance band or weighted vest, and do them in a place that allows your head to go below the level of your hands (please be very careful, don't bash your head or injure your neck)Pike push-ups from a platform.As the other answerers have stated, you want to supplement the overhead press with some sort of rear deltoid dominant exercise. I don't necessarily think a pure lateral head movement is necessary, and I consider the side lateral raise to be a somewhat odd exercise. In real life, you rarely ever lift things in that way. You can greatly improve the benefits if you do them one-sided only, and alternating hands between sets. Lots more core engagement!The same goes for the rear delt raise. I have literally never seen somebody lift anything up in a bent over position like that. Use muscle groups as they are meant to be used: In unision. For rear deltoid exercises, I am partial to the pull-up. Sure, the rear deltoid head is not the prime mover. But again, you're using the muscles that should work together as a group, and in my mind, that trumps attempted isolation. If those are too easy for you, add some weight. You can also do elbow presses and reverse iron cross push-ups, but I don't find them as functional. Doing inverted rows, especially with raised feet, is a very good rear delt/lat/elbow flexor/grip exercise as well.Inverted rows with elevated feetAll in all, the military press is already a lot more balanced as a shoulder exercise than the dip, but you will especially want to add some rear deltoid work to keep your strength and size equal front to back.