 TL;DR: Yes, you can. And it's pretty simple too.Let me start by saying: I don't care. I don't care who you are, man, woman, neither, I don't care if you work on a plantation in India, weave baskets in Algeria, or herd sheep in Scotland. I don't care whether your environment is rural, urban, or neither. I don't care if you're 10 or 60, I don't care what race you are, what ethnicitiy, who your parents are, or how rich you are. It doesn't matter whether you live on a plot so large it could be a micro-state, on the streets, or in jail. A truly determined person can get a workout anywhere in the world.Whether you choose to go the pure calisthenics route, or throw in some improvised or acquired forms of extra resistance, you can become functionally strong, powerful, fast, and big using very little equipment. If I were your coach, the only thing I would ask for is your heartfelt commitment to the journey. Talent and pre-existing skill are immutable, and therefore of no concern to us. But exercise should be like a good marriage. You stick with it 'till death do us part.'Before I delve into the 'How', allow me to give some "dos and don'ts".Do what you can handleIt seems obvious, but many people violate this fundamental principle. If you can't do an exercise right, you need to take your time and learn it properly before you run off chasing a high number of reps. There's no point practicing sets of 20 push-ups if you don't do them right. You'll only overestimate your strength, and end up hurting yourself, either acutely or over time. Learn the movement properly, and then work on making it yours. If you can't get it right yet, go back to an easier move, and work up from there. Be patient, and you will be continuing to get strong for many years to come.Do challenge yourselfThe other end of the spectrum is also often seen. For somebody who wants to become stronger, going from 50 push-ups to 60 isn't all that great an improvement. Going from a single one-armed push-up to 11 one-armed push-ups, on the other hand, signifies a great increase in strength! On that note, when you're 'maxing out' with an exercise, i.e., seeing how many repetitions you can do in one go, stop the set when your technique deteriorates. Practice makes permanent, and if you practice less than stellar technique, that's what your body will learn and cement. Inviting sneaky injuries was never easier.Do 'milk' every ExercisePeople are often in such a hurry to progress from one exercise to another (or one weight to the next) that they don't get all the benefits they could from an exercise. While I don't advocate doing hundreds of push-ups, there's an obvious difference in barely surviving 20 push-ups, and being able to breeze through confidently. Work towards that confidence with your weight/rep goals, as this also gives your joints and tendons the time to adapt.Do learn to improviseTo people working out at home, especially when on a low budget and working with mostly calisthenics, being creative is the bread-and-butter of training design. You need to learn to work with what your surroundings provide you and make the best out of it.Don't rush the PaceDynamic exercises, have a negative phases (lowering), one or two hold phases (isometric), and a positive phase (raising). You may lower yourself fast or slow, but it must ALWAYS be under control. Depending on the exercise, you are either meant to pause at the bottom for a moment, or bounce back up directly. This action too, must be controlled. As a rule of thumb, when training for strength, you are steering every single moment of the exercise. Take 2 seconds for moving up and down, wait for 1 second at the top of the movement, and where applicable, wait for 1 second at the bottom as well.Don't forget the BasicsEspecially when it comes to calisthenics, you don't want to forget the basic three: two-legged bodyweight squats, two-armed medium grip push-ups and two-armed medium-grip pull-ups. Keep revisiting these exercises in your training every now and then. You can use them to fix problems that have snuck up. Correcting your pace, form, or cheating can be done here, without exhausting you. They also make great specific warm ups, so keep them in your toolbox.The StartWithout working with you personally, it's hard for me to assess where you are right now, so you will have to do that in my place. Work with the basic 3 exercises I have mentioned. Push-ups, pull-ups and squats. Of course, depending on whether you have some weights at your disposal (usually dumbbells), various exercises like presses, deadlifts and weighted squats can be done.Start out with exercises/weights you can do at least 3 reps of confidently. If you can't do push-ups, do knee push-ups. If that's still too hard, elevate your hands. Accordingly, if pull-ups are too hard for you, do them off of a bar that's between chest and knee height, keeping your heels on the ground.Finally, if a full two-legged squat is too much for you, grab on to a table or similar object and start from there.Here are some answers on Quora to help you get to your first reps of said exercises (and beyond):Push-ups:Sed Chapman's answer to How can I learn how to do press-ups gradually?Pull-ups:How do I increase my level of pull ups step by step?Squats:Bhavesh Aggarwal's answer to What are some body weight leg exercises?ContinuingWhen it comes to increasing your strength, size, and fitness 'Progression' is the name of the game. If your workout isn't challenging you, you're not going to adapt. Apart from those basic three exercises, you might find it useful to do some specialized core work. People often do crunches till they nauseate, but I don't like them, as they don't build much abdominal strength. You're better off doing things like