 planks, side planks, sit-ups and leg raises. I personally think you don't need to incorporate abdominal exercises until you're capable of doing a push-up, a pull-up, and two-legged squat, as these will work your core too, just not as the main focus of your exercise. As you progress with sit-ups and the like, you will want to find ways to make them harder. Planks can be made harder by lifting your limbs off the ground (or putting your feet on an elevated surface), while leg raises can be made harder by hanging from a bar. Sit-ups can be made harder by making them unilateral, holding out your arms and holding on to weight. Here is a more detailed explanation for sit-ups:The Sit-Up revisited by Bhavesh Aggarwal on The Quora Gym v.P.Note that while good core exercises will give you strong abdominal muscles, you won't get a visible six pack from doing them. You'll need to lower your body fat percentage to at most 8-12% to do that. You will also want to do exercises for your back (and in fact the entire muscle chain starting from the back of your head down the back and butt all the way to the muscles in the soles of your feet. I would also advise you to only worry about those once you've gotten a goot bit of progress on the basic three movements above (and any dumbbell versions you may do), as they will give you a good foundation to work off of. You'll find some good exercises here:Train that Posterior Chain by Bhavesh Aggarwal on The Quora Gym v.P.For the legs, my first link details the full A-Z of training. Here are more answers/posts to advance with upper body training:Pull-ups:Bhavesh Aggarwal's answer to How can one best train to do a one-armed pull-up?Push-ups:Bhavesh Aggarwal's answer to How many push-ups should I be able to do before moving on to one-armed push-ups?Handstand Pushups by Bhavesh Aggarwal on The Quora Gym v.P.What is the best way to build muscle in upper-body and arms through push-ups?Putting it togetherSo now that we've covered the basics and some progressions, how do you go about this all?TrainingAt the beginning of every training session is the warm up. Jog for 800 meters, or do a few dozen jumping jacks. Swimming, biking climbing, all of the low intensity activities that elevate your heart rate are ideal for this phase. This will get your circulation up and running, warm up your muscles, and mentally put you in the zone. After the intial warming up, continue with dynamic stretching. Here's a list of stretches you can do:http://www.brianmac.co.uk/dynami...Do not static stretch before your sessions! Ideally, do static stretching around 3-4 hours after your workouts, or on the days you're not working out.Once you've warmed up with low-intensity stuff and some dynamic stretches, do 2 warm up sets with low reps of an easy exercise. For example, if you're practicing push-ups on that day, do 2 sets of 6-8 knee push-ups a few minutes before the main training. This will activate the right muscles and nerve cells, and increase blood flow to the working muscles. This part of the warm up is probably the most important!Main TrainingNow that you're warmed up and primed, do the main exercise(s) for the day. I advise you do to skill training at the very start, like when working on handstands. Follow this up with your strength stuff. In our example, this could be pike push-ups, or regular push-ups, or even a completely unrelated exercise like squats.Structure your work so that your main movements like squats and pull-ups are first, and things like core training, grip work and and calf training are last. In other words, things that involve many muscles as movers go first, those with fewer muscles (and smaller muscles) go after that. This is why you should also do your leg work before your upper body work on a specific day.Looked at over the week, as a beginner, 3 full body workouts on non-consecutive days are best. For example Monday, Wednesday, Friday, rest on all the other days. Every 8-12 weeks, plan in a week where you don't do as much strength work. This helps avoid pain, keeps you fresh, and can even kickstart your progress on a lift or exercise that has been stagnating.Once a year, take off two or three weeks entirely from exercising. Reps, Sets, RestOne thing many people ask is: How many reps and sets should I do? How much do I rest between sets?The answer is, as so often, "It depends." It depends on whether you want mostly strength and little size, size and strength, size, or endurance. Here are some rough guidelines on the matter, plus diet advice:Bhavesh Aggarwal's answer to How can a very skinny, 24 year-old grow muscles?When training for pure strength, keep the breaks long, 2-5 minutes. The more you're working on size or even endurance, the shorter the breaks become. I recommend you to read up on the subject. Books like 'Starting Strength', 'Convict Conditioning (1,2&3)', and many other will go a long way in providing you guidance where nobody else can. Look around and you'll find stuff that fits your situation. Apart from strength, you need to work on tissue quality, conditioning, and mobility. I will not go into these subjects, because there is A LOT of info on the net for free.And finally, here's my last bit of advice. You can improvise weights with a ton of different things in your environment. Milk cartons, rice bags, other people (particularly babies). For example, coming back to the shepherd in Scotland, grab a lamb and do your squats with it on your shoulders. As the lamb grows bigger, you become stronger. For some more ideas, here's a website to help you with makeshift weights:How to Make a Homemade Weight SetRemember that sand can be replaced with pebbles, and pebbles can be replaced with coins for added weight. Hat tip, Coach Ellis.