 I wrote this as directed to my 13-year-old self, but it rings just as true for all of my early teens.Milestones aren't metric by Bhavesh Aggarwal on Indo-Swiss PotpourriI wake up confused. I know where I am, but it's not where I should be. "Why is there fog inside a room?", I groan."Don't know", says a familiar voice.I look up, and can't believe my eyes. Standing in the middle of my pre-school's living room is thirteen year old me. Both of me look at themselves and back at the other one. "Are you..", he trails off into shocked silence."Yeah, pretty much, kid. I'm you."His eyes display a glint of disappointment. "Sorry to dash your hopes, but this is how tall you'll get. Don't worry, though, you'll get used it." I sound more sarcastic than I meant to. His, my, pimply face contorts slightly with anger. Yep, that's me. Don't even like losing to myself. "So you're future me, huh? How old are you? What happens between now and where you are right now? And how did we even get here?"Dammit, did I really ask so many questions then? Is it okay if I am mean to myself?I take a deep breath, decide to be patient, and help him."Yes, I am future you. I am now 23 years old. Lots of things happen between you and me. And I have a theory on how we came to be in the same room.""How will you get back, then? And how will I get back?""Calm down. Most likely, there's a logical explanation for this. But if I say it out loud, we'll be ripped back into our times, so let's instead make the most of this meeting. I am not going to tell you every single thing that's going to happen. I will tell you a few things to do and keep in mind. If you don't, you have nobody to blame but yourself.""Okay, tell me.""First, wash your face twice a day with soap, and don't forget to moisturize. Second, drink more milk, and eat more. Cut out the butter.""This is boring. You sound like Mom and Dad." "Patience, little one. You're becoming a man slowly, and there are some things you need to do now to make sure you become not only a good guy, but a great one.""Okay, I am listening. What more?""Come to terms with the fact that you're black. Some will try to mock your for it. But if you accept it, and become proud of it, they'll be afraid of you and your confidence, and not so quick to pick on you.""Really? You remember that I get insulted because of it often, right?""Exactly", I say, "that's why you need to make it something you enjoy hearing. Trust me, people will try to take it away from you when they realize it makes you stronger.""Alright." I can hear that younger me is unsure about this one. Fool."In school, don't try to be with the popular kids at all. And don't let them boss you around. Don't be afraid to get into a scuffle with them if they threaten you or your buddies. Seriously, DON'T LET THEM PUSH YOU AROUND.""Are you sure I should do tha-" "YES, I am bloody sure. Do you want to learn something or not?""Okay, sorry."I calm down again. "The same thing goes for Mom and Dad. Don't let them push you around. Tell Dad to get his stuff himself. Be firm, even mean, if need be. And don't let him cut your hair. EVER. And if he discounts your opinion, tell him straight up what you think of that. There's no point in keeping your anger down and letting him dismiss you whenever it suits him. Ask for what's yours, and don't budge on it until you've gotten what you want. You know what I am talking about, right? The thing that started with the cupboard Dad broke.""Oh, right!""And most of the generic good advice holds true. Stay away from drinking, smoking and drugs. I've never did any of these, and I am better off for it.""Sure, but I wasn't going to try that anyway.""And one more thing about Mom and Dad. Work on having them let you sleep in on the weekends. It will prevent a lot of problems.""Okay. What about, you know, girls?"I smirk."I won't tell you whom to stay away from. Here's my advice. Don't go for the looks. You're not in love until you know the person. Most of the ones you've considered are horrible ideas.""Now something completely different. You're pretty awesome on the inside. Let that shine through more. You're better off being yourself and unhappy about it than not being yourself and unhappy about it anyway. Dig?""Okay.""You'll meet lots of great people all over the world. Keep an open mind about who's bad and who's good, do you understand? Don't let people's prejudices influence what you think of others.""I am not sure I understand.""Don't worry, it will make sense in time.""Alright, I see.""Finally, before I go, here's my last bit of advice. Exercise. It won't stunt your growth, I promise. It might even help you grow taller.""Really?""Yep, really.""Okay. You've given me lots of tips. I hope I can see this through.""I am sure you can. You are me, after all, and you're capable of things you never even thought of. Literally! All the best."And with that, I open my eyes. The sun is shining already, and I can feel that childish excitement bubbling inside me. I open the door of my room, and see my father standing in the corridor. I smile, and cheerfully announce my presence. "Good morning, Dad." He turns around, suprised. "Hey, you're up! Good morning, son. Happy birthday."