 try to be with the popular kids at all. And don't let them boss you around. Don't be afraid to get into a scuffle with them if they threaten you or your buddies. Seriously, DON'T LET THEM PUSH YOU AROUND.""Are you sure I should do tha-" "YES, I am bloody sure. Do you want to learn something or not?""Okay, sorry."I calm down again. "The same thing goes for Mom and Dad. Don't let them push you around. Tell Dad to get his stuff himself. Be firm, even mean, if need be. And don't let him cut your hair. EVER. And if he discounts your opinion, tell him straight up what you think of that. There's no point in keeping your anger down and letting him dismiss you whenever it suits him. Ask for what's yours, and don't budge on it until you've gotten what you want. You know what I am talking about, right? The thing that started with the cupboard Dad broke.""Oh, right!""And most of the generic good advice holds true. Stay away from drinking, smoking and drugs. I've never did any of these, and I am better off for it.""Sure, but I wasn't going to try that anyway.""And one more thing about Mom and Dad. Work on having them let you sleep in on the weekends. It will prevent a lot of problems.""Okay. What about, you know, girls?"I smirk."I won't tell you whom to stay away from. Here's my advice. Don't go for the looks. You're not in love until you know the person. Most of the ones you've considered are horrible ideas.""Now something completely different. You're pretty awesome on the inside. Let that shine through more. You're better off being yourself and unhappy about it than not being yourself and unhappy about it anyway. Dig?""Okay.""You'll meet lots of great people all over the world. Keep an open mind about who's bad and who's good, do you understand? Don't let people's prejudices influence what you think of others.""I am not sure I understand.""Don't worry, it will make sense in time.""Alright, I see.""Finally, before I go, here's my last bit of advice. Exercise. It won't stunt your growth, I promise. It might even help you grow taller.""Really?""Yep, really.""Okay. You've given me lots of tips. I hope I can see this through.""I am sure you can. You are me, after all, and you're capable of things you never even thought of. Literally! All the best."And with that, I open my eyes. The sun is shining already, and I can feel that childish excitement bubbling inside me. I open the door of my room, and see my father standing in the corridor. I smile, and cheerfully announce my presence. "Good morning, Dad." He turns around, suprised. "Hey, you're up! Good morning, son. Happy birthday."