 The handstand push-up is generally best learnt practicing the two components in its name separately. Handstands and push-ups. Start with push-ups.If you can't do 2 sets of 20 chest-to-the-ground, perfect form, slow push-ups, don't even worry about the handstand version. Pay your dues with the basics before you think about an advanced move.Once you're confident with the push-up, work up to the same numbers with your feet on a knee-high object. For the next step, find an object that's just below hip height, and place your feet on it for push-ups. You should aim for 2 sets of 15 reps at minimum.Finally, place your feet on an object that's above hip height, and train to do 2x15 push-ups in that position.This phase of training will strengthen your shoulders, upper chest, upper trapezius, and triceps, as well as your core in preparation for the harder variations to come. It will also build the strength necessary for you to hold yourself in a handstand position.Pike Push-UpsPikes are a great exercise to progress to handstand push-ups. You're pushing at almost the same angle, teaching your body the biomechanics of the handstand push-up, but with far less weight. Simple get up on your toes, and bend at the hips without rounding your back. You'll look like a jackknife from the side. Now do push-ups in that position. The bottom of a rep has your head lightly touch the floor. Keep your hands slightly wider than shoulder width, and keep your elbows from flaring out. Build the strength and endurance to do 2 sets of 15 reps before moving on the next step.Over time, work on elevating your feet with the pike push-up too. The highest you should raise your feet is the length of your upper body, measured from the waist to the top of your head. Keep the 90 bend at all times.HandstandsNow we come to learning the handstand against a wall. My favorite way to do it is getting into a push-up position with my hands about half a foot from the wall, and then kicking up with my feet. Practice staying in this position for at least a minute straight, but build up to it over time. As a safety measure, practice this with a folded towel on the ground below the spot your head is, just in case your arms give out on you. It's unlikely to happen if you followed the instructions above, however.Adding the push-up back inSo you've got your body into shape. Your shoulders, upper chest, triceps, core, back and all other muscles are ready for what lies ahead of them. Get in front of a wall, and kick up. Slowly descend, until your arms are slightly bent. Pause for a moment, then push back up. That's a half handstand push-up. Don't forget to place a towel beneath your head!Repeat the half handstand push-up, until you think you've got one or two reps more left. Stop the set there. Repeat again after about 2 minutes.After two sets of half handstand push-ups, practice handstand push-up negatives. Start at the top, and lower yourself as slowly as you can. This is where towel comes in handy. When you reach the bottom, kick back up into a handstand, and repeat. Do 2 sets of as many reps as you can safely do, so 1-2 reps shy of failure. Over time, you will build enough strength to do a full handstand push-up. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...My form isn't perfect yet, but I'm getting there.Thanks for the A2A, Thomas Duggan.