 Building upper body muscles with push-ups is dependent upon proper progression and overload. While I advocate also doing pull-ups for even development, that's a discussion for a different time. Let's focus on how to build muscles with push-ups. 1. Go heavyThere's no doubt about it. If you want to build muscle, you need to challenge yourself. You need to use a weight that you can only complete a relatively small number of reps (5-12) with. In the context of calisthenics, unless you gain weight, the load in and of itself is not changing anytime soon. You can use a weighted vest or a resistance band to increase the load in your push-ups. The extra load is scalable to your needs and goals.2. Go hardIf you can't get resistance bands or weighted vests, you always have the option of going the pure calisthenics way. If standards push-ups are too easy, here's a progression to make them harder:Bhavesh Aggarwal's answer to How many push-ups should I be able to do before moving on to one-armed push-ups?Of course, raising your feet is another great way to make push-ups more challenging. Doing them on your fingertips gets you a greater stretch on your chest, activating the muscle more, and netting your more strength and size. Work up to this, however. Do fingertip push-ups on the wall or high objects first. Alternatively, do them on your knuckles.3. Take FlightPush-ups can be made much harder and more productive by making them explosive, for example clapping push-ups. Be very  careful, however. This can be rough on the joints even if you do everything right. Use a soft surface (and common sense!) and progress slowly.4. I call 'Dips' on the BarsDips are the 'full body' cousin of the push-up. Famed for their potential to cause shoulder pain, they should be done cleanly and only for as many reps as your technique is good. A good cue is to think of keeping your shoulders back and down at all times. If you experience shoulder pain (in the joint), look for alternatives.5. I have Planches for tonightThe push-up is a basic exercise, and most people will not gain a ton of strength from a standard push-up. Work on learning the planche (depicted below) and do your push-ups in that position.The leverage makes this much harder than just simply pushing your own weight like in a dip. Don't expect to get this right within a month.Image from Wikipedia