 It's funny how we can differentiate the sometimes subtle nuances between two dogs of the same breed, but can't see the individuality of a group of men over 500'000'000 strong. That's the population of the US, Canada, and Russia combined, with a little extra to spare.That isn't to say there isn't a certain amount of truth in the answer, but there's more to it than meets the eye, and many of the factors in play are not in control of the Indian men who are influenced by them. I'll address each point one by one.Lack of SophisticationWhen you talk about a lack of any sort, it's in relation to a standard or an average. I don't find many men at my age having much in the way of sophistication. Much of this has to do with lack of education, both academical and social. Makes sense in a poor country, even though it is a sad state of affairs.Complete Self-SatisfactionIf Indian men thought they were perfect, they wouldn't be buying fairness creams, trying to find out ways to increase their height, increasingly hitting the gym, and changing the way they eat. Complete Lack of GroomingDamn near non-sensical. Using large amounts of oil to style your hair is necessary. Have you seen the amounts gel people use? Even then, the statement here is way over the top. As for flossing, that is a concept all of India is yet to catch on to. Give it time.Complete Lack of PhysiqueThe whole paragraph sounds nonsensical. We just need to look at the Sikh comunity, as one prominent example. Some of it is poverty and inadequate diet too.Complete Lack of anything interestingBy their 30s, most Indian men are married and have children. Guess what? Having hobbies under those circumstances is hard. As for when we're younger? Have you tried being an Indian teen with a hobby? Our parents are extremely academically minded. If you as much as show interest in a subject matter, quite often, you're whipped back in line. Cultivating a hobby is something that requires an at least neutral environment. Ours is often a hostile one, in this regard. The rest of that paragraph is overly sarcastic bullshit, and even racist, or at least colorist. Being dark is not a shame, nor bad, nor wrong, nor in any way inferior to being light-skinned. Now, I'm not saying that Indian men aren't at least in part responsible for who they are and how they act. But understand that the system in place encourages certain personality traits and suppresses others. It's our job to dismantle that societal machine and allow for better self-realization of all Indians. It's not going to be easy.