 If you have nothing but the floor at your disposal (no bars at all), by the far one of the best exercises is the elbow press. Zero equipment required, and lets you get a hell of a lats workout in. It's not as functional as a pull-up, though. Elbow PressesLie on the floor face up. Keeping nothing but your heels in contact with the ground, push through your elbows in an attempt to lift the body off the ground. Do not extend your spine (just keep it rigid), all movement must come from you pushing into the floor. If you're doing it right, you should be able to get your body off the ground until your lats can't shorten anymore.Tips:If this is too hard, bend at the hips when doing elbow presses. You can also elevate your upper body to make this exercise easier. Should you happen to not have a thick carpet or yoga mat at home to do these, use a pair of towels. Be careful not to slip. Mentally, it helps to think of this exercise as a 'lat push-up'.Here's yours truly doing some after pull-ups.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Some isometric exercises to hit your lat nicely (From Convict Conditioning):Hulk PullsGrab two vertical bar six inches (15cm apart) with your forearms held horizontally. Alternatively, kneel before an open door and hold on to the handles/knobs. Now, pull as hard as you can for 5 seconds, take a 10 second break, and repeat for a total of 5 sets. Bow PullsHold on to a vertical bar (goal post, lamp post, pipe), with one arm at chest height and the other at face height. Bend your arms slightly so that you are around 2/3 of an arm's length away from the bar. Now push with the upper arm and pull with lower one as hard as you can for five seconds. Then, without a break, push with the lower arm and pull with the other one, again for five seconds. Take a ten second break, and switch arms. Complete the entire cycle four times. Crucifix PullsStand between two bars (goal posts?) that are an armspan or slightly less apart. Hold on to them, and without bending your elbows, try to pull the, towards each other. Think about trying to bring your shoulder blades together. Hold for 10 seconds, pause for 5. Repeat 4 timesThese exercises are isometrics, so while they can't replace elbow presses or pull-ups, they're a great way to train the lats and other muscles occasionally.DipsDips also work the lats as a secondary muscle. It might not fit your definition of REALLY working the lats, but it can be a good assistance exercise. You don't necessarily need bars to do them. They can be done off of two chairs placed together or other high furniture. PlanchesA planche is a fiendishly tough isometric hold, and while it's not a lat dominant exercise, it's another great zero equipment kind of thing. You need a floor, and yourself. Start by doing them tucked, i.e. you knees curled under the belly, and straighten out over time. Once you can do planches, attempt a plance push-up. It's a great chest, shoulder, and triceps dominant exercise, but engages pretty much your whole body.Back levers fall into a similar category, but you need a bar for them. Which brings me to my final bit of advice:Pull-Ups... Wait, what?!You should look around for some pull-up bar alternatives to do pull-ups and inverted rows. For more info on that, see my answer: Bhavesh Aggarwal's answer to How can I do pull-ups without a pull-up bar?Images from Wikipedia, paraphrased text from Convict Conditioning by Paul Wade.