 The BasicsAs you rightly said, you want to load up on carbs the days before, and take a high carb meal on the day of your race (starchy carbs about 2 hours before the competition, a banana 45 minutes before competition time). Be sure to hydrate well before the competition. 'Hydrate well', according to the IOC nutrition panel report, means  drink around 700ml of water about 90 minutes before the competition.Keep sipping a sports drink (e.g. Powerade) throughout your race to keep up on carbs and water, your average rate should be around 1.5 bottles (assuming 500ml bottles) per hour. However, don't drink too much at once, it will only slow you down.Water and carbs are the most important factors for a long-distance race like yours. But you already know that. So what's the sweet stuff you can do to boost performance?Adrenaline in a BottleNope, I am not asking you to inject anything. I am talking of the loved yet hated substance called caffeine. Caffeine stimulates your adrenal glands, cause them to release adrenaline (or epinephrine), increasing your reaction time, circulation in the brain, heart, liver and muscles, breaking down fat and glucose stores for quick energy mobilization. Caffeinated you has an edge over not-caffeinated you, so make the best of that benefit. The recommended dose, as per the above mentioned source is1-3 mg per kg body weight.Keep in mind that caffeine accelerates dehydration a little (even though drinking an average coffee is a net fluid plus) so you don't want to overdose on it. Also, if you're being tested, too much caffeine is considered stimulant abuse, so stick with the recommended dose.Check your brand of coffee and drink accordingly.ArginineWhen your muscles are working, they produce small amounts of NO to cause local vasodilation. They use arginine for this subtle but important function. An arginine supplement can help keep up the supply of nutrients to your muscles. This will mainly boost your initial performance.MultivitaminsAs Sed correctly noted, a multivitamin the morning before the race is a good idea. The mulivitamin will supply you with all those essential cofactors in various energy-releasing biochemical reactions. Provided it's high-quality. Else you're just drinking acids you will have to (possibly painfully) piss out again. Save yourself the pain, go for a reliable manufacturer.Other supplementsLactic acid buffers or creatine won't work long enough to be relevant to your long-distance aerobic event, so you're better off avoiding those. Creatine doesn't help for slower, aerobic stuff, and lactic acid buffers can cause nausea and vomitting. Plus, the effect is only good for a few minutes.Note on IntakeIt's generally recommended to not experiment with supplements on the day of the competition. As well are individuals, and manufacturers use different processing methods, we might not all react the same way to a substance, or the method of delivery. Expermint before competition. On the day of your race, you should be following your plan, not be in the process of writing it.ConclusionThere aren't many supplements out there that can credibly boast to enhance your performance - without being banned- but the basics hold up to scrutiny time and time again. Stick to water, carbs, some caffeine, maybe a multivitamin. Stay away from other stuff. It will cost you money, and might be useless at best, and harmful at worst. Thanks for the A2A, Scott Paglia.