 The easy answer is: Because they need them. Arm action in sprinting is often described as 'hammering nails in a wall behind you'. The faster your arms are moving, the faster your legs will go. While downswings are somewhat conscious, upswings happen automatically because of the collective stretch reflexes of your shoulders, your chest and your arms. Think of doing hundreds of high speed reps in that fashion, and you can see how your upper body would get a good bit of training.However, sprinters do train their upper bodies, within reason. The legs and core, as Aaron rightly noted, are the prime targets of training, but a sprinter without a powerful upper body can't make it to elite status. Period.Plus, size is just one variable when it comes to strength. A variety of builds can be found in sprinting, even in the 100m. In every Olympic sprints discipline (100m, 200m, 400m), coaches generally divide their sprinters in two types. One that is 'moving up' and one that is 'going down' in distance, sometimes also know as speed vs endurance type or as power vs strength type respectively. For example, the 100m sprinter comes in the 60m type, and the 200m type. Generally, the sprinter 'moving up' tends to be shorter, and more muscular, while the others are leaner, even lanky, in comparison. There are also sprinters who can't easily be classified as either/or.Both types use their upper bodies a lot, but generally speaking, the power type sprinters uses their arms aggressively in the initial phase to accelerate, whilst the strength sprinter uses their arms to maintain form at the end of a race, and stave off deceleration. While power sprinters look 'intimidating' when sprinting, strength sprinters are often said to look 'graceful' when plying their trade.For example:Ben Johnson, former 60m and 100m sprinter, has tree trunks for legs and basketballs for shoulders. Sure, he had some 'chemical help' but even without it, he was a power sprinter. He was known to regularly blast his blocks back.At 5:09, you can see Ben's start in actionhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Compare him to his rival:Carl Lewis was a 100m &200m sprinter, and a long jumper. While by no means out of shape or even skinny in the classic sense, he's much smaller than Ben, while being a taller individual. For Carl, it meant that in any race between him and Ben, Ben would invariably start better and be ahead at the 30m mark. Carl's strength was the ability to decelerate less than his rival at the end of the race. Here's an apples-to-apples comparison, where the two raced against each other.Ben Johnson is in lane 2 (second from the inside) and Carl Lewis is in lane 4.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Note how Ben Johnson started much more powerfully, with a charateristic leap, as opposed to Carl Lewis, who is the stronger finisher. There's a slow-mo at the end where you can see this even more easily. Speaking of graceful sprinting:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Both sprinters have upper bodies according to their body type. Ben, being a power sprinter, had a well built upper body that helped him start and accelerate aggressively, while Carl had a light but strong upper body that helped him maintain form at the end of a race and decrease his deceleration.Finally, powerful full range of motion arm movements increase stride length by increasing the distance travelled in the air while not decreasing stride rateTo sum it up, sprinters have well-built upper bodies because 1. Sprinting requires aggressive, powerful, and at the same time, controlled arm action to make their legs turn over faster.2. They help to put more force into the ground, thus allowing further and higher travel during a single stride.3. The upswing of the arms increases stride length by increasing the distance travelled in the air, which leads to a net gain because the air time doesn't change.