 I have 4 daughters, and I came out to them when they were 19, 18, 16 and 14. I had fully transitioned only 10 months later.It has, like everything else about transitioning, been a mixed bag. On the one hand, I am happy that my delayed coming out and transition allowed me to have children at this point in my life. They are the solitary blessing in my life, and their love is one of the very few things that keeps me going from day to day.Of course, it has presented its own challenges. It required that I also come out to them, and to do so in a way that would make sense to them. They had some awareness of what being transgender meant, from TV and popular media, but this is prior to the rise of Orange is the New Black, Parenthood and Caitlyn Jenner's coming out. Although I am certain that they understood what I mean about being trans, I am also certain that they had no idea how much that revelation would impact me, and them.It has been difficult to maintain relationships with two of my daughters, partly because of things that happened, and largely that I did, before transitioning, but also because of the transition itself. It can be difficult for someone to know how to relate to a trans person when they are a friend, or even a stranger, but when that person is as central to your life as a parent, that presents multiple additional challenges.It has also created issues with how they refer to me - they have a long history of "dad", "he" and "his", and getting to a point where they recognize and accept that those are neither the appropriate terms, nor desirable and respectful, is hard. For the most part, my girls don't refer to me in the third person or by name/title when I am around, bypassing the issue, but I do know that my ex continues to use the pre-transition terms and pronouns, which makes it particularly difficult for me to move to a more acceptable/congruent convention. I also allowed them for a long time to be the ones to lead in what they used - in the last 6 months, I've become more active in specifying that I prefer "mom", "she" and "her".I am looking forward to the day when they have children of their own, if any of them decide to do so, and I am around to see it. It will be the first time when I will have any family members with no pre-transition knowledge of me, and I hope that it can give us a more normal, and unchallenged, relationship.