 I would suggest a number of things.First, honesty, particularly in any relationship that you intend to be of any significant duration, is far, far better than lying or posing as something that you aren't. If you are a virgin when you first have physical relations with your paramour, and she has any experience, then she will know - it's hard to fake experience when you have exactly none.Second, ignore almost everything that you may have ever seen in porn movies. Pornography is performance sex, and you do NOT see the preparations, the adjustments, the annoyances and other things that go on off-camera to make porn orgasm worthy for the viewers. Normal couples, particularly inexperienced ones, trying to recreate porn are going to have a much less enjoyable time than they would if they just did what felt good.Third, take your time with her pleasure. It can seem frustrating and long at times, but, trust me, paying attention to foreplay, and ensuring that she is aroused, will pay off huge dividends in her interest and engagement with the intercourse, when that arrives. Don't hurry things - our nipples and clitorises are sensitive and pleasurable... eventually, but starting there is rarely the best approach. Start with kissing, and non-sexual touching, and words of affection and desire, not obscene, just picking out things that you like about her, physically and non-physically. Telling me that I have a smile that lights up a room gets me interested and starting to be aroused. It's an art, to find the ways to arouse her that work best, but it's worth the time.Fourth, don't worry about your technique in penetration. While many women find penetration pleasurable, few women orgasm from intercourse alone. If you have taken the time to arouse her, and take care of her pleasure first (even bringing her to orgasm, although you shouldn't expect to achieve this the first time, even if she is already orgasmic (NB there are estimates that at least 50% of women are pre or non orgasmic, so there are a LOT of women that simply won't orgasm, no matter what sounds they make)), then she will be very, very forgiving of any little mistakes that you make. But remember, there is a lot of sensitive tissue down there that can be easily chafed and abraded if your partner isn't sufficiently well lubricated (same for you, actually). Simple arousal may be enough for many women, but many of us need oral stimulation as well, and a significant proportion require external lubrication as well. It may be too forward to show up with a bottle of lube (I recommend silicone based, as it lasts longest, leaves the least mess, and requires the least in application, but water based lubes are some of the most common), so if the first time doesn't lead to intercourse because she's too dry, just be ready the next time - she likely will be as well, and many of us will appreciate your preparation.Last, relax. Sex is a SKILL, and like any skill, it takes time to learn. No one starts their sexual career as a Don Juan or Casanova - they needed lots of practice in seduction and arousal and other techniques to gain the reputations that they had. It won't come for you all at once, but if you pay attention to HER, far more than to you, then you will be successful, where success is measured by the amount of mutual pleasure experienced.Good luck!