 All other things being equal, it is better to be a man than to be a woman. Although there are isolated roles and jobs where women receive preferential pay and promotion, these are concentrated in areas that are seen to be secondary or subservient roles (e.g. nurses vs. doctors, elementary vs. secondary school teachers). Female privilege isn't really a thing - it would be like saying black privilege or poor privilege or uneducated privilege. The challenge is that white males in particular are so embedded in their privilege that it is incredibly difficult for them to even comprehend the extent to which their privilege benefits them. To an extent, women face the opposite problem - since marginalization of women is the norm, it's hard to understand the extent to which this negatively affects them.I don't say this with any rancor because until 3 years ago, I was that most fortunate of all humans, a fit white middle aged "man", educated, employed, well off, in good health and with no personal issues to speak of... and I said and truly believed all of the things said in this question's details and much of what the MRA movement says. Transition opened my eyes in an incredible way, from simple things like my opinion being less important or even correct, to scary things like never running alone after dark anymore, to complicated things like how the behaviour that men say that they want from women that they date isn't actually what they want.My experience isn't isolated. Other trans women report the same outcomes and trans men report the opposite - where they used to be ignored and seen as bitchy with an awkward sense of humour, they suddenly, without changing anything but gender, had opinions that mattered, were seen as assertive when they were forceful, and had even their weakest jokes at least treated as an attempt to be funny instead of just embarrassing. No Virginia, there is no women's privilege. Anyone that says otherwise is cherry picking isolated circumstances or not comparing parallel situations.