 Oh, wow... this is another fractally incorrect question, which makes it almost impossible to answer.Terminology first - you have made the same mistake as Rachel Dolezal and the media made with the term "transracial". Their mistake, and yours with "transsexual," is that you have hijacked a term with a known and precise meaning, and overloaded it with an invalid, incorrect, and fundamentally insensible definition. A transsexual is an individual with gender dysphoria who transitions to their felt gender to the extent required to abate the symptoms of the dysphoria. Trying to make it something about sexual orientation just confuses you, and everyone else.Second, sexual orientation and gender identity are fundamentally different things - orientation is about WHO you want to go to bed WITH, while identity is about WHAT you want to go to bed AS. This difference gets lost in the minds of many cis people, including the gay community, because the inclusion of the T in LGBT makes many people think that trans people are just an odd kind of gay. The reality is that a trans person can be L (or G), B, or hetero, AS WELL AS being trans - and when you add in asexual and pansexual, you get all of the orientations to which a trans person can belong.Third, transition for a trans person isn't the adoption of a gender - it's the external/visible/public acknowledgement of an inborn gender identity which is at odds with the gender assigned at birth. Gay people don't "transition" - they come out to themselves, and begin to live they way that their orientation requires them to live, which really only has one mandatory component - who they are romantically and sexually attracted to.Fourth, and related to my last point, being gay is NOT a "lifestyle" choice - the range of activities and behaviours and hobbies and socialization approaches and sexual attachment/expression options adopted by gay and lesbian people is as varied as it is for straight people. The "gay lifestyle" is a lie created by the hetero majority to marginalize orientation into something similar to being an adrenaline junkie (into extreme sports) or a crafter (into knitting and crocheting and attending shows and event about those activities) or an equestrian or a soccer parent or whatever else. Once it is a "lifestyle choice", it is safe to mock and marginalize, as "they could always choose to be normal and straight, like everyone else."If someone is romantically and sexually attracted to the opposite sex, but engage in same sex relationships, there is a lie involved - either they are lying to themselves about their orientation or they are lying to their partners about the attraction involved (or they are bi, but that's part of lying to themselves about their orientation). The thing is that, with a few isolated exceptions, the ongoing discrimination against and marginalization of the gay community means that there will be very few people motivated to lie this way. Those that do will likely engage in this for reasons of personal gain - either entree into a community which they find of interest to them, or into roles and jobs that they believe would be hard to get into if they didn't present as gay... And that is the crux of the fractal invalidity of the question. Being transgender is NOT a lie about ones gender.