 You're in a difficult time, and dealing with a difficult situation. At 15, your body is in the midst of becoming adult, differentiating itself from the relatively androgynous body that you had up to the time that you hit puberty. The hormones that are running through you right now are pretty much guaranteed to mess up your emotions, and play with your thoughts and self-concepts. You are also dealing with a dysphoria, a sense of incorrectness about your situation, and it's an area in which seeking adult help, or even admitting that you have these questions, is likely to cause you as many as, or more problems than, you are dealing with at this moment.You are actually expressing a few different challenges in your details - let's break them down.You feel like a boy, although you were identified as a girl at birth.You are uncomfortable with "female norm" activities and clothing, and prefer activities and clothing which are normally seen as "male".You feel romantic (and possibly sexual) attraction toward girls.Given your question summary, I would guess that you are somewhere on the transgender spectrum, experiencing gender dysphoria - but the rest of your details make me uncertain. One of the challenges faced by trans, homosexual and heterosexual people in understanding gender and orientation is that the vast majority (70% or more) of the world population identify as straight cis people. This means that there is a strong correlation between gender assigned at birth, gender identity, gender presentation, and orientation - men are identified male at birth, continue to identify as male, do masculine things and wear masculine clothes and are attracted to women, while women are identified female at birth, continue to identify as female, do feminine things and wear feminine clothes and are attracted to men.The problem is that this view, called the "gender binary", is very narrow, and very, very incomplete. The reality is that all of those things are really spectra, and don't have any requirement to be "consistent" with the gender binary. For example, I know gay men who love drag and feminine presentation, I know trans men who present ambiguously and love women, I know straight women who love masculine clothes and activities, and I am a trans woman who presents very femininely and is in love with a woman. There isn't just one way to be, and you need to be aware of that.Definitely, the hardest situation to deal with is being trans - this is difficult for cis people to understand (both gay and straight - in fact, the gay community can be even more transphobic than the straights), and being true to yourself requires a very visible transition, often involving hormone treatments and a number of expensive surgeries. I would never encourage anyone to rush into a gender transition without being certain that what they are feeling IS gender dysphoria.From what you say, I suspect that you may "just" be gay, with what is often called a "butch" presentation, but since you have likely been raised in, and primarily exposed to, the gender binary, the disconnect between your orientation and your gender identified at birth is making you feel like you need to be a boy to be attracted to girls. This just ends up being reinforced by your disinterest in (or distaste for) feminine activities and clothing. I would strongly encourage you to talk to a trusted adult about what you are feeling. Hopefully this would be your parents, but the odds are against that. If you live in a relatively progressive/liberal region, you may be able to get the advice and support that you need from a teacher or guidance counsellor. If you live in a relatively large city, in just about any North American region, there is likely an LGBT support centre where they can probably provide you with some support. You can also talk to people on Quora about this - for the trans community, I would recommend Elliott Mason, Tess Norris, Katie Anne Holton or me. Erica Friedman is the only gay woman that comes to mind immediately, but there are definitely others. No matter who you talk to, please be cautious - there are still a lot of places where admitting to being part of the LGBT community is a quick road to being shut out and discarded, and far too many teens have had this happen to them.