 There are many places in the world with huge contrasts between city life and rural life. I cant speak for everywhere, but I can offer some UK based wisdom. Ive grown up in the rural area called North Devon for 29 years. The population is of a relatively low density; theres only a few towns. Devon is also home to the largest open space in southern England: Dartmoor.In comparison to Devon (population 748,000 for the whole county), Ive lived in Melbourne, Australia (population 4.5 million) for a year, visited and stayed in a few cities throughout Europe and the UK and my Significant Other is a city girl. These are my credentials for this answer.Until the invention of the internet, it felt like, to a degree, that we were cut off from society. I mean, theres roads (the UK isnt a third world country), but many people choose to live here for The Simple Life. There are several key benefits to The Simple Life: Less stress. Theres a different pace of life here, its far more relaxed than the cities. Its for this reason many people dont like the hustle and bustle of built up urban areas - everyone seems to be in a rush.Money isnt as much of a priority. When you have a relatively low wage, but youre still subject to the same taxes and living costs, you learn to enjoy what you have (with a treat every once and a while). You start to appreciate good memories over material things (which usually end up breaking after a while). This is why I enjoy photography, its a visual representation of a memory. You have an affinity with nature. Within a 20 minute walk Im in the countryside. The rumble of modern society is barely noticeable. Fresh air fills my lungs. Im surrounded by flora and fauna. I dont have to see *anyone.* Within a 30 minute drive Im in the wilderness of Exmoor (Dartmoors younger brother) - 268 square miles of moorland, woodland, rivers and inaccessible shoreline. This is the kind of place you can live off the land like we did back in the day. Here is an example of someone (with an excellent name) who did just that: http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/.... Hope is certainly living The Simple Life as she was on the verge of being part of the rural homeless community. In some ways being homeless in the countryside is easier than the cities. You can find fresh, clean water. Living off the land is achievable (whether its stealing from farmland or growing your own veg, fishing, setting traps for rabbits, mice, birds etc). Theres privacy, no one cares about what you look like and what you do because there is no one there to care about what you look like and what you do. You can become at one with nature.There are fewer serious crimes. Murder is a rarity, when it happens, its big news, it sends the community into a state of shock. There is an undercurrent of drug use because, well, theres little else to do. Burglary is fairly high because its easy to become complacent about privacy. Violence will happen usually as a consequence of alcohol, again because theres little else to do. Drink driving is a problem. The crucial difference to city life here is Ive never felt threatened walking around at night. Ive never been mugged or even approached by anyone asking more than just the time or a lighter. Theres no terrorist threat.Its quiet (obviously). Even living directly in the middle of my small town, above a road (and a Subway) theres virtually no noise except for the bloody seagulls. Saturday nights get quiet after midnight and even then Im only a 10 minute walk from quietness.Personal education. Class sizes are smaller, which provides more of a one on one education experience. Overall, research shows that students in smaller classes perform better in all subjects and on all assessments when compared to their peers in larger classes. In smaller classes, students tend to be as much as one to two months ahead in content knowledge, and they score higher on standardised assessments.So The Simple Life has its upsides, but lets compare it to urban life:Culture happens. Clubs are open to the early hours so I can listen to my favourite genres of music whenever I choose. The comedy circuit isnt a once a year event, its a year round constant - I love comedy and finding new comedians to tickle my funny bone. I can visit museums and galleries and view the works Ive only seen in books or the internet. Theres street art and performances, talks, festivals and theatre.Everything is convenient. I can go out and know I wont need to cut the night short to get home on the last bus/train. If I need medical attention, there will be help nearby. If I need food theres cafes, restaurants, food markets and supermarkets with everything Ill ever need.Increased opportunity. Life in the city gives you more opportunities in life, this is fact. There are far more jobs, places to live, educational options, and business advantages. All of this gives you a better start in life. There is simply more choice with everything.Cultural diversity. Like it or loath it, the UK is a diverse place. There is a range of different societies