 There is a fair few country specific answers in this thread (looking at you India), I have nothing against them But I cant relate to them. I wouldnt know my BR Chopra's Mahabharat from my Hum Paanch unless I read about it here. Therefore, I want to add a few British centric cerebrations from that day-glow, pixilated, optimistic, transitional phase we called the nineties.The nineties were a joyous time for British culture, particularly in the intermediate years. I was born in the early eighties, so I was seven years old in 1990 through to sixteen in 1999. It was a time when being British felt like it was something to be proud of, we had distinction, we were unique. We were riding on the wave of the sixties inspired era known as Cool Britannia. The early nineties were overshadowed by the Gulf War. Whilst Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait, the British dance scene was really taking off. It was a time for peace, love and unity, ecstasy , acid house, Raves, happy hardcore, house parties, up all night and living for the weekend. Sons and daughters from the most opulent of backgrounds danced in the fields with the poorest kids from the housing estates. Race, class and religion had no place on the dance floor. The DJ was God. Nothing these days can really match those hedonistic times and me being 7-12 years old means I narrowly missed out. This was the era where the nation necked its ecstasy pills with a bottle of vodka bought on the cheap from France via the newly built Chunnel.If in the early nineties the nation double dropped, the mid-nineties were like the Molotov of happy chemicals supplying dilated pupils, euphoric rushes and vivacious remembrance.Damien Hirst and Tracey Emin embraced millionaire hood. Unkempt indie bands such as Blur, Oasis and Pulp stole the limelight from the beloved boy bands. Comedy really came into its own - From sketch shows such as The Fast Show and Harry Enfield And Chums to panel shows such as Shooting Stars and Never Mind the Buzzcocks to sitcoms such as Men Behaving Badly, The Vicar of Dibley, The Royle Family and I'm Alan Partridge (notice they are all from the BBC?) We dont get programs like this anymore. Theres more choice nowadays, yes, but less individuality. Take Brass Eye, The Day Today, and On the Hour from my favourite 90s satirist Chris Morris: Very dark, dry and edgy. It was the kind of comedy that stuck two fingers up to the media and mocked political gibberish. No one would dare make a humourous show about paedophilia these days. Contemporary comedy in comparison is civilised. Cool Britannia was at it peak, it evoked a national renaissance in arts and culture pioneered by the Britpop bands, young British artists, filmmakers and fashion designers. Also, for once, England was doing well in the football. The latter half of the decade hit. Tony Blair and his New Labour crew were ushered in after 18 years of Conservative rule under Margaret 'The Iron Lady Thatcher and John 'Underrated Bore' Major