 ** Warning. This answer contains plot spoilers and pseudo-quotes sections from The Algebraist by Iain M. Banks. **Tl;DR The Archimandrite Luseferous from The AlgebraistOne of my all time favourite fictional characters is but a man, not some monster from the deepest dark pits of hell. Not some alien with five heads and twenty arms. Not a God or a fairy or an animal. Just a man. An evil, despicable, imaginative man. He has long, sheen-black straight hair and a naturally pale complexion, which had been skillfully augmented to make his skin nearly pure white. His eyes were artificially large, but just close enough to congenitally possible for people to be unsure whether they had been augmented or not. The whites beyond the black irises were a deep, livid red, and every one of his teeth had been carefully replaced with a pure, clear diamond, giving his mouth an appearance which varied from bizarre, mediaeval toothlessness to startling, glistening brilliance, entirely depending on the angle and light. He is: The Archimandrite Luseferous - warrior priest of the Starveling Cult of Leseum9 IV and effective ruler of one hundred and seventeen stellar systems, forty-plus inhabited planets, numerous significant artificial immobile habitats and many hundreds of thousands of civilian capital ships, who was Executive High Admiral of the Shroud Wing Squadron of the Four-Hundred-and-Sixty-Eigth Ambient Fleet (Det.) and who had once been Triumvirate Rotational human/non-human Representative for Cluster Epiphany Five at the Supreme Galactic Assembly.That is an enviable title that simultaneously works as a resume. The closest photo I could find is Ralf Fiennes as Amon Goeth from Schindlers ListSo why have I included a man as an imaginary creature? Because of his imagination. Being a warrior priest of the Starveling Cult makes him a target. Hes destroyed cities and planets to make a point. He revels in sociopathic sadism of the highest degree.This is why he deserves a place on this thread:In the days before the latest ongoing Chaos and the last, fading rumbles of the Disconnect Cascade, had some years ago caused the head of his once-greatest enemy, the rebel chief Stinausin, to be struck from his shoulders, attached without delay to a long-term life-support mechanism and then hung upside down from the ceiling of his hugely impressive study in the outer wall of Sheer Citadel - with its view over Junch City and Faraby Bay towards the hazy vertical slot that was Force Gap - so that the Archimandrite could, when the mood took him, which was fairly frequently, use his old adversary's head as a punchball. Stinausin had caused Luseferous enormous military and political difficulties before being defeated, difficulties which sometimes verged on being humiliations. There was deep resentment towards the traitor, which easily turned to anger when Luseferous looked upon the mans face, no matter how battered, bruised and bloody it might be (the heads augmented healing functions were quick, but not instantaneous), and so the Archimandrite probably still smashed away at Stinausins head with as much enthusiasm now as he had when he first hung there, years earlier. Stinausin, who had barely endured a month of such treatment before going completely mad, and whose mouth had been sewn up to stop him spitting at the Archimandrite, could not even kill himself, sensors, tubes, micropumps and bicircuitary prevented such an easy way out. Though by now perfectly insane, sometimes after an especially intense training session with the Archimandrite, when the blood trickled down from the one-time rebel chiefs split lips, re-broken nose and puffed-up eyes and ears, Stinausin would cry. This Luseferous found particularly gratifying. Of late, the Archmandrite had a new play-mate to amuse himself with. A nameless would-be assassin whose own teeth were slowly killing him. The assassin, a big, powerful-looking, leoninely human had been sent without weapons save for his specially sharpened teeth, with which, it had obviously been hoped by whoever sent him, he could bite out the Archimandrites throat. This he had attempted to do, a half-year earlier at a cerimonial dinner. The failed assassin had been both routinely, if savagely, tortured and then very carefully questioned under the influences of entire suites of drugs and electro-biological agents, but had given nothing useful away. Luseferous, who was that most of deplorable of beings, a psychopathic sadist with a fertile imagination, had decreed that the final punishment of the assassin should that of his own teeth - the weapons he had been sent wit, after all - should bring about his death. Accordingly, his four canine teeth had been removed, bioengineered to become tusks which would grow without ceasing, and reinserted. These great finger-thick fangs had erupted out of the bones of his upper and lower jaw, puncturing the flesh of his lips and had continued their remorseless growth. The lower set curved up and over his head and, after a few months worth of extension, came to touch his scalp near the top of his head, while the upper set grew in a scimitar-like paired sweep beneath his neck taking about the same time to meet the base of his throat. Both sets of teeth then started to enter the assassins body, one pair slowly forcing themselves through the bony plates of the mans skull, the other set entering rather more easily into the soft tissues of the lower neck. The fangs burrowing through his skull and into his brain were the ones which would shortly, and agonisingly, kill him. The unfortunate, nameless assassin had been unable to do anything to prevent this because he was pinned helpless and immobile against the wall of the chamber with hand and shackles of thick stainless iron, his nutrition and bodily functions catered for by various tubes and implants. His mouth had been sewn up, like that of Stinausin. For the first few months of his captivity the assassins eyes had followed Luseferous around the chamber with a fierce, accusatory look that the Archimandrite eventually grew to find annoying and so hed had the mans eyes stitched shut too.Luseferous had had his genitals enhanced in all sorts of ways. One improvement was that he carried glands inside his body which allowed him to produce many different secretions which his ejaculate could then carry into the bodies of others (but whose effects he was proof against, obviously), including irritants, hallucinogens, cannabinoids, capsainoids, sleeping draughts and truth serums. He went briefly into the little-death little-trance, the petit mal which allowed him to select one of these, and chose the last-mentioned, the truth drug. He took the girl anally; it was faster-acting that way... It emerged that she thought he was horribly ancient and weird-looking and a frightening, sick-minded old sadist and she absolutely hated being fucked by him. He thought about inseminating her with thanaticin, or employing one of the physical options his remade penis made possible: the shaved horsetail, perhaps. Or just injecting her into the vacuum and watching her die. In the end, Luseferous decided that letting her live with such constant degradation was punishment enough. He'd always said he preferred being despised, after all. He would make her his favourite. Probably wise to put her on suicide watch, too.There was a rasping noise and a heavy thump from inside the tank, followed by some almost inaudibly high keening sounds. Luseferous turned to watch the Recondite Splicer tear the giant leeches apart and eat them, violently shaking its great patchily brown head and tossing some bits of slimy black flesh all the way out of the tank. Once it had thrown a still-alive leech up and out of the tank and nearly hit the Archimandrite with it; Luseferous had chased the injured leech round the chamber with a shear-sword, cleaving deep slivers out of the dark red granite floor as he hacked and sliced at the creature. When the show in the tank was over, the Archimandrite turned back to the assassin. He put the elbow glove back on, picked another trunk-leech from the pot and strolled over to the man attached to the wall. Do you remember home, sir assassin? he asked as he approached. Is there any memory of it in your head at all, hmm? Home, mother, friends? He stopped in front of the man. Any of that stuff at all? He waved the leechs moist, seeking snout in front of the assassins face as he spoke. They sensed each other, the cold, writhing creature in the Archimandrites hand stretching out to try to fasten itself to the mans face, the man sucking breath through his nostrils and turning his head as far as it would go, seeming to try and shrink back into the wall behind (this would not be the first time the assassin had been introduced to a trunk-leech). The tusks digging into his chest prevented him from moving his head very far. Luseferous followed the movements of the mans head with the leech, keeping it in front of his lightly furred, leonine face, letting him smell the straining, quivering mass. Or did they rip out all those memories when they cleaned you, before they sent you to try to kill me? Huh? Are they all gone? Eh? He let the very tip of the trunk-leechs mouth parts just touch the fellows nose, causing the failed assassin to wince and jerk and make a small, terrified whimpering noise. What, eh? Do you remember home, eh, sport? A pleasant place to be, a place you felt safe and secure and with people you trusted, and who maybe even loved you? What do you say? Eh? Eh? Come on. The man tried to turn his head still further, straining the puckered skin around the puncture points on his chest, one of which started to bleed. The giant leech trembled in Luseferouss hand, stretching its mucus-tipped mouth parts still further as it tried to find purchase on the human males flesh. Then, before the leech could properly attach itself to the fellow, the Archimandrite pulled it back and let it hang from his half-outstretched arm, where it swung and twisted muscularly with what felt for all the world like genuine frustration.I like my home, he told the fellow quietly. I do, really. Everything Ive had to do, Ive done just to make things safer, to make home safer, to make everybody safer. He waved the trunk-leech towards what was left of the mans genitalia, but the leech seemed listless and the man already exhausted. Even the Archimandrite felt like some of the fun had gone out of the situation. He turned smartly and strode to the pot on the broad rail over the tank, dumping the leech inside and peeling the thick elbow glove off.We are serious, Luseferous told the Dwellers. He stood. Do you hear that noise? He turned his head, as though listening. The dull ticking noise went on; steady, remorseless. That is a drop-bomb chute, firing once a second. Only in this case it is firing people, not warheads. Unprotected human beings are being thrown into space towards your planet at a rate of over three thousand per hour. They are men, women and children, old and young adults, people from all walks of life, mostly captured from surrendering ships and damaged habitats. We have over twenty thousand of them aboard. They will continue to be fired at this rate until we make some sort of progress here. He waited for some sort of reaction from the three Dwellers, but they just kept on looking at the view. Now, he continued, do any of us here present think we might have just remembered anything useful? He watched the people and the aliens staring at the stippled line of black dots moving slowly away from the great ship. A few people turned to look at him, then looked away when he met their gaze, trying to hide hatred and fear and horror. Odd how people reacted so severely to something unpleasant happening right in front of them but were prepared to ignore much worse horrors taking place elsewhere. He is calculating and truly maliciously evil. I cant think of a villain who would go to such degradation just for his own malevolent gratification. He is pompous, over-the-top and unbelievable in his callous audacity. Not bad for just being a man.