 Okay, so I've been through this rather substantial thread and I'm quite bored of seeing the Silence Of The Lambs poster and how it relates to Salvador Dal. I like to think I have an eye for aesthetics and that's the point of a film poster - to catch the eye. Here are four film posters that caught my attention which aren't fan-art reworkings.The Truman Show (1998)This is one of my favourites - Jim Carrey. From a distance the poster depicts just a happy go lucky guy wearing a suit staring off into the distance with a sense of happiness and contentment. It's not until you look a little closer that you see the photo is made up of screenshots from Trumans life. This is called a photo mosaic and it was the first time I'd see that effect.The Memory Thief (2007)"Lukas (Mark Webber) is a lost soul who will create a world that will push him over the edge in "The Memory Thief." A Christian, he immerses himself in the Holocaust and adopts the persona of a survivor of the camps. But instead of finding his own humanity, Lukas, a toll taker who on the surface has a good heart - he gives his neighbors rent money, he cares for his comatose mother, he rescues a dog - becomes obsessed with, and makes a perversion of, the survivor's memories."The poster itself is rather striking, as expected for any image that's 99% black & white. This compliments the overall bleak feeling of the film.BUG (2006)"A haunted woman with an ex-husband in the clink and a traumatic past eating away at her encounters a disaffected young man who ushers her into an underworld of conspiracies about conspiracies, army experiments, aphids, microchips, the status quo, remote control assassins, and love."Another monotone poster showing Ashley Judd (Agnes) framed by what seems like several insects spliced together backlit against a grainy background. You know this isn't going to be a romantic comedy.Brazil (1985)"Low-level bureaucrat Sam Lowry (Jonathan Pryce) escapes the monotony of his day-to-day life through a recurring daydream of himself as a virtuous hero saving a beautiful damsel. Investigating a case that led to the wrongful arrest and eventual death of an innocent man instead of wanted terrorist Harry Tuttle (Robert De Niro), he meets the woman from his daydream (Kim Greist), and in trying to help her gets caught in a web of mistaken identities, mindless bureaucracy and lies."This is one poster I'd love to have on my wall. It depicts Sam Lowry (Jonathan Pryce) about to drift off into a fantasy/dream sequence - the juxtaposition of the nightmarish, dystopian world in which he lives.