 Its certainly a double edged sword. I currently work in an open kitchen and have done for over 3 years, for me, I consider it middle house - Not quite front of house, not quite back of house - somewhere in-between. Prior to my present job, I worked for nine years behind closed doors. This allowed me to be a lot more brazen, generally louder and relaxed with my language (swearing can be a British pastime). To begin with, the transition to middle house was somewhat bumpy to say the least. Here are the differences compiled into a handy list:Volume levels have to be kept in check. Sometimes the obligatory sneeze screens dont muffle your voice as much as you think. Our TripAdvisor scores are generally good, but I did make it clear that if a customer is allergic to pepper, they have a right to tell the waitress so the kitchen can take the necessary allergy containment steps. Unfortunately, the customer heard my complaint and wrote a complaint themselves.Figuratively, you work in a goldfish bowl. People stare. People stare a lot. Its often awkward, downright wearisome and perpetually perturbing. I understand people are hungry or just interested in what youre doing, but anyone would feel distracted when they look up to see ten+ pairs of eyes trained on their every move. The kitchen is set towards the back of the room, so its my prerogative to check incoming and outgoing customers for effective time/team management. Its really easy for people to think youre looking at them, when in fact you just want to Get. Stuff. Done.The music is humdrum. Music has always been a staple of a kitchen environment (except for when its busy). Working in an open kitchen subjects you to the restaurant music. Theres no freedom of choice. Its repetitive, distracting and mind-numbing. The only chance of a respite is on an open when I insist on earphones for some personal music time. Everyone knows when you make a mistake. You burn something, it happens. Unfortunately, in an open kitchen the room fills with smoke, theres no escaping it, the extractor fan can only do so much. Customers dont like this very much, especially when theyre hungry. It automatically makes you look like an amateur. Drop something? Prepare for a room full of people turn round to stare at you, the noise of crockery smashing feels like it lasts for minutes.You have to look happy. Hangovers happen, illness happens, sleep deprivation, fatigue, work politics, hangryness (that grumpy irritable feeling when youre hungry) through it all you have to look happy, youre a representative of the restaurant. You have to interact with customers. I believe in this world you have the kind of people who choose to be back of house and those who prefer it out front. Introvert vs extrovert if you will. FOH have to deal with the general public all day and, well, some customers are just plain weird. FOH are representatives of the restaurant - always happy to help, making the customer feel welcome and relaxed and are there to provide a pleasing atmosphere (there is a whole lot of two facedness with customers). All of this takes confidence, especially with strangers. Back of house are the pistons in the hospitality engine. They work hard under pressure, in a hot, often greasy environment, to provide the eating experience a customer should expect. Working in an open kitchen means the customer will come and talk to you regardless of how many meals are in the oven, how many tickets have just come through, how hungover you are. All you can do is try and be friendly and not burn anything. I live in constant fear of saying something I regret in the heat of the moment.Children. You cant escape them. For the most part theyre okay, but the babies will cry, cutlery will be thrown around, voices are always raised. Some children really are the spawn of the Devil though. This isnt always down to bad parenting. Ive had children run into the kitchen in the middle of busy Saturday service, draw with snot on the squeeze screens (I have to clean those you know!), vomit, incessantly cry until a parent has to take them outside. Having a crying child in a hot, smoky, busy environment is just want everyone needs.Its not all bad though, there are some good reasons to work in an open kitchen:Its your show. Yes, people stare, but not always because theyre hungry. Sometimes they are just interested in what you do for a living. You get used to groups of people crowding round to watch their food being made. Multitasking looks impressive when its busy.You hear indirect feedback. I love the wow factor - When a customer receives the food youve just spent 20 minutes to prepare and you hear wow or wow thats amazing. Better yet, they take a photo. That photo goes on to social media and turns into free advertising for your restaurant.You know when youre about to get busy. This is a blessing. You can see new customers; you can measure how busy youre going to get and for how long. This gives you time to prep, get breaks out of the way, train new staff, go the toilet - it takes the guesswork out of the all important time management.Mystery shoppers. These are people whose job it is to judge you, your food, the environment. Its generally different people each time, but you get to spot the signs. They order new or promotional items, they always ask to keep the receipt, they are constantly looking around, writing in a notepad and, crucially, they have to take a photo of themselves outside the restaurant. In an open kitchen you get to spot these signs and ensure their food is up to standard (as it should be). Its not just mystery shoppers, it could be the local food critic or your mother/friends/family. These are who I call V.I.Ps.*Sympathy. Ive found some customers will be sympathetic towards you if they can see youre busy, especially if youre by yourself. Ive even received sympathy tips from customers with an accompanying go buy yourself a beer after work, youve learnt it.Communications with front of house are a whole lot easier. You can see them, they can see you. Sometimes you dont even have to say anything to communicate. A nod or a wink or simply calling out which table is ready for their mains is all it takes. It saves time so the customer gets their food quicker. On occasions I can see the waiters are busy and I take out the food myself, or clear tables, or inform a waiter that a table needs their attention. So, like I said its certainly a double edged sword, but its something I definitely enjoy. Its now 10am on Saturday, time to go and get prepared for lunch.