 ** Warning. This answer contains plot spoilers and pseudo-quotes sections from The Algebraist by Iain M. Banks. **Tl;DR The Archimandrite Luseferous from The AlgebraistOne of my all time favourite fictional characters is but a man, not some monster from the deepest dark pits of hell. Not some alien with five heads and twenty arms. Not a God or a fairy or an animal. Just a man. An evil, despicable, imaginative man. He has long, sheen-black straight hair and a naturally pale complexion, which had been skillfully augmented to make his skin nearly pure white. His eyes were artificially large, but just close enough to congenitally possible for people to be unsure whether they had been augmented or not. The whites beyond the black irises were a deep, livid red, and every one of his teeth had been carefully replaced with a pure, clear diamond, giving his mouth an appearance which varied from bizarre, mediaeval toothlessness to startling, glistening brilliance, entirely depending on the angle and light. He is: The Archimandrite Luseferous - warrior priest of the Starveling Cult of Leseum9 IV and effective ruler of one hundred and seventeen stellar systems, forty-plus inhabited planets, numerous significant artificial immobile habitats and many hundreds of thousands of civilian capital ships, who was Executive High Admiral of the Shroud Wing Squadron of the Four-Hundred-and-Sixty-Eigth Ambient Fleet (Det.) and who had once been Triumvirate Rotational human/non-human Representative for Cluster Epiphany Five at the Supreme Galactic Assembly.That is an enviable title that simultaneously works as a resume. The closest photo I could find is Ralf Fiennes as Amon Goeth from Schindlers ListSo why have I included a man as an imaginary creature? Because of his imagination. Being a warrior priest of the Starveling Cult makes him a target. Hes destroyed cities and planets to make a point. He revels in sociopathic sadism of the highest degree.This is why he deserves a place on this thread:In the days before the latest ongoing Chaos and the last, fading rumbles of the Disconnect Cascade, had some years ago caused the head of his once-greatest enemy, the rebel chief Stinausin, to be struck from his shoulders, attached without delay to a long-term life-support mechanism and then hung upside down from the ceiling of his hugely impressive study in the outer wall of Sheer Citadel - with its view over Junch City and Faraby Bay towards the hazy vertical slot that was Force Gap - so that the Archimandrite could, when the mood took him, which was fairly frequently, use his old adversary's head as a punchball. Stinausin had caused Luseferous enormous military and political difficulties before being defeated, difficulties which sometimes verged on being humiliations. There was deep resentment towards the traitor, which easily turned to anger when Luseferous looked upon the mans face, no matter how battered, bruised and bloody it might be (the heads augmented healing functions were quick, but not instantaneous), and so the Archimandrite probably still smashed away at Stinausins head with as much enthusiasm now as he had when he first hung there, years earlier. Stinausin, who had barely endured a month of such treatment before going completely mad, and whose mouth had been sewn up to stop him spitting at the Archimandrite, could not even kill himself, sensors, tubes, micropumps and bicircuitary prevented such an easy way out. Though by now perfectly insane, sometimes after an especially intense training session with the Archimandrite, when the blood trickled down from the one-time rebel chiefs split lips, re-broken nose and puffed-up eyes and ears, Stinausin would cry. This Luseferous found particularly gratifying. Of late, the Archmandrite had a new play-mate to amuse himself with. A nameless would-be assassin whose own teeth were slowly killing him. The assassin, a big, powerful-looking, leoninely human had been sent without weapons save for his specially sharpened teeth, with which, it had obviously been hoped by whoever sent him, he could bite out the Archimandrites throat. This he had attempted to do, a half-year earlier at a cerimonial dinner. The failed assassin had been both routinely, if savagely, tortured and then very carefully questioned under the influences of entire suites of drugs and electro-biological agents, but had given nothing useful away. Luseferous, who was that most of deplorable of beings, a psychopathic sadist with a fertile imagination, had decreed that the final punishment of the assassin should that of his own teeth - the weapons he had been sent wit, after all - should bring about his death. Accordingly, his four canine teeth had been removed, bioengineered to become tusks which would grow without ceasing, and reinserted. These great finger-thick fangs had erupted out of the bones of his upper and lower jaw, puncturing the flesh of his lips and had continued their remorseless growth. The lower set curved up and over his head and, after a few months worth of extension, came to touch his scalp near the top of his head, while the upper set grew in a scimitar-like paired sweep beneath his neck taking about the same time to meet the base of his throat. Both sets of teeth then started to enter the assassins body, one pair slowly forcing themselves through the bony plates of the mans skull, the other set entering rather more easily into the soft tissues of the lower neck. The fangs burrowing through his skull and into his brain were the ones which would shortly, and agonisingly, kill him. The unfortunate, nameless assassin had been unable to do anything to prevent this because he was pinned helpless and immobile against the wall of the chamber with hand and shackles of thick stainless iron, his nutrition and bodily functions catered for by various tubes and implants. His mouth had been sewn up, like that of Stinausin. For the first few months of his captivity the assassins eyes had followed Luseferous around the chamber with a fierce, accusatory look that the Archimandrite eventually