 *Contains spoilers*Brazil (1985) has some of the best dream sequences. They provide a welcome juxtaposition to the harrowing, dystopian, bureaucratic, retro-futuristic world created by Terry Gilliam.The film follows Sam Lowry (Jonathan Pryce), a low level clerk for the Ministry Of Information. He lives within a society under complete control of a somewhat incompetent government.The only way Sam can escape the dystopic nightmarish society is via his unconscious and its exactly that which helps the viewer to understand the film.The opening sequence is perhaps everyone's dream: To fly. To fly like a bird, to swoop and soar over a lush English countryside towards a beautiful woman enveloped in white veils. As the film progresses, his dreams begin to match real life as they become responsible for the ensuing chaos.The countryside makes way for the towering city walls, creepy creatures wearing baby masks and a giant robotic samurai trying to steal his seraphim. Thanks to YouTube there is a compilation of the dream sequences to add gravitas to my meagre description. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...There is so much symbolism going on in his dreams, it's easy to see how it crosses over into Sam's reality.Sam's dreams start as a parallel to Icarus, where the sun is actually Jill. He flies too close to her which subsequently leads to his downfall.The creatures with baby-like masks represent his enemies. They are the ones leading Jill through the city. Later on, you see his dear friend Jack wearing a baby mask just before torture commences.The Samurai represents technology. It's when the mask is removed and Sam see's his own face underneath, that he realises he is complicit with society and is as bad as everyone else. Even the word Samurai is a clue: Sam-you-are-i.There are many more things you won't necessarily notice until you've seen the film more than once (the end Tuttle sequence and the working lifts for example). This film works on many levels and takes a few viewings to notice all the nuances. For me, this is the makings of a masterpiece.