 Michael Pennington/ Johnny Vegas immediately springs to mind. Michael describes Johnny not so much as a character, but a voice inside his head. The Johnny Vegas character came from a place of failure. Success was his Kryptonite. For Johnny, if something went wrong with a set, it was because it was meant to go wrong and everyone else was too stupid to see it. He never wanted to play the big gigs, he hated to dumb it down for TV appearances, he loathed the PG Tips tea adverts. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Originally Johnny Vegas was created as a way to help control the school bullies, but the witty retorts were always redirected internally. This soon changed as alcohol was introduced. Booze allowed Michaels inhibitions to be thrown aside as the unrestrained Johnny was unleashed upon the general public. The epitome of a Johnny moment was an impromptu reenactment of Crufts with a belt as a leash which lead to the finale of a poo on stage. All because a resident journalist admitted he usually reviews pet shows instead of comedy gigs.In the film Magic, Corky Withers (Anthony Hopkins) acquires a ventriloquist dummy called Fats to help with his magic act. Unfortunately, as Corky becomes more successful, events take a turn for the worst, (spoiler) Fats takes control of proceedings and kills several people. Michael was at the point where Johnny was seeping into his private life and the person he was killing was himself. Alcohol (apparently two bottles of vodka before a gig) was the key to his success, but this obviously isnt the key to good physical and mental health. Michael was put into a box when Johnny came out to play, but it was Michael who had the final say. In the end, his second marriage and the birth of his son Michael Pennington Jr was enough to put Johnny away forever. Comedy careerComedy occurred to him inadvertently. He made a debut as a contestant on the television show, Win, Lose or Draw in UK. It was during the show that he used the stage name, Johnny Vegas, which has stayed on with him since then.He made a brief appearance on Channel 4s 100 Greatest Stand Us and BBC Threes Almost Famous 2.It was in the mid-nineties that he took up residence in London with the intention of becoming a stand-up comedian. There, he was trained and mentored by Malcolm Hardee, the godfather of comedy. In 2001, he was the face of the advertising campaign for the launch of the ITV digital. However, the launch was a disastrous one given the fact that the puppet named Monkey, voiced by Ben Miller, gained all the limelight. In 2002, he made an appearance in the Dirk Maggs directorial Radio 4 sitcom Night Class, which he co-wrote with Tony Burgess and Tony Pitts. In the show, he played the character of a former Butlins redcoat teaching evening classes in pottery. The show gained a runner-up position at the Sony Radio Academy Awards. While continuing with his television show, he made a big break at the big screen with the feature film, The Virgin of Liverpool. Same year, he starred in other films such as Cheeky and Blackball. In 2004, he had three movies slated for release including Sex Lives of the Potato Men, Terkel in Trouble and The Libertine. Post Night Class, he followed up with the BBC3 sitcom, Ideal in 2005. He starred in a total of 53 episodes posing the character of Moz. Same year, he appeared in other television series, such as 18 Stone of Idiot, Bleak House, Dead Man Weds and ShakespeaRE-Told. In 2007, he yet again appeared in a television commercial for tea brand, PG Tips. Same year, he starred in the television series, Benidorm for 24 episodes. While he was a regular in the first three series, he was next seen in the sixth series. Year 2010 and 2011 saw him appear less on television. He made a guest appearance in one episode of Daves One Night Stand and was seen in 2 episodes of Celebrity Juice. 2012 was a packed year for this comedian as he starred in a couple of television shows including, Rude Tube, Moone Boy, A League of their Own and Mr Stink. In 2013, he was seen in the flick, The Harry Hill Movie. Additionally, he also made a television appearance, Have I Got News for You, Still Open All Hours and Never Mind the Buzzcocks The success of the entertainment world had a direct favourable impact on his first love, i.e. Pottery. He started receiving encouraging reviews for his work so much so that he was offered a role in Pot Shots, a film basically intended for an international audience. He was even offered to design a bottle of aftershave from Old Spice What sets Michael Pennington apart from other stand-up comedians was the fact that for most of his career the general public could see no discernible difference between the character hed created and the real man himself. The vast majority didnt know the real Michael Pennington and towards the end, nor did he.