. This was the political era that the tabloids coined the words Blair babes, Tonys cronies and dodgy donors. Talking of newspapers (the scourge of the media world) The Tabloids (AKA The Red Tops: The Sun, Daily Mirror and News of the World, AKA The Paparazzi) were found partly responsible for the death of Diana, Princess of Wales in 1997. Her relationship with Harrod 's chairman Mohamed Al-Fayed's son, Dodi, was an obsession amongst the red tops, one which continued long after her death. A total of 33 million watched her funeral on the Beeb. This was the same year News 24 was launched - The BBCs 24 hour rolling news channel (this was where I remember finding out about 9/11 and the subsequent killing of Osama). In Northern Ireland, the Good Friday Agreement brokered a template for peace, coming into effect on the 2nd December 1999.The DVD format was released, just 6000 were sold in the first year. The ill-fated lacklustre Millennium Dome began construction and its still not best to mention the whole Millennium Bug thing.The late nineties felt like the comedown. The collective heartbeat slowed - the chapped lips, the bleary eyes, feeling dirty, unwashed, having not slept for what seems like years. Cool Britannia was dead and buried with only the big New Years celebration and Westlife as Christmas number one to look forward to. After the initial climax, the noughties brought in highs like a new age of computing, iPods, Pixar, but also recession, celebrity idiocy, the war on terror (but mostly George Bush), 7/7, CCTV, bird flu and Big Brother.So, overall I miss the party atmosphere generated by our little island nation. I miss our identity. In keeping with the spirit of this thread, I have purposely missed out a fair chunk of nostalgia to avoid turning it into a tl;dl essay (I may have already gone too far for some). Therefore, let me add my musings on the subject.Ode to the ninetiesI was born in the nineties,Not not literally, but see, Im a different breed. So lets reminisce, or should I say think back,Twenty odd years, its hard to keep track.This is where my childhood was spent.Its when a Tamagotchi was considered a pet, And lets forget the florescent fashion of Timmy Mallett.There was Jeremy Beadle, Noel's House Party, Saved by the Bell and bright blue Smarties.Hypercolour T-shirts, bum bags and GakSupply teachers, lads mags, Yak Bak and boyband backpacks.Nokias from the 3210's to the Communicators,Finger Skaters and Mister Motivator.Slap bands, crap bands and pedantic DOS commands,Edward Scissorhands and parents who just didnt understand.Pogs, Mr Blobby and give me an e please Bob",Killing Robotnik on Sonic the Hedgehog.Mario, Spyro, Diablo, Grim Fandango andYou know when you've been Tango'd"Who could forget cereals with hidden toysGame Boys, Talkboys and Pip-Boy,Biker Mice, Byker Grove and 3 million unemployedAnd Sly Stallone who was definitely on steroids.Let this be known as days of yore,But show some respect for the decade I adore.