 experience a customer should expect. Working in an open kitchen means the customer will come and talk to you regardless of how many meals are in the oven, how many tickets have just come through, how hungover you are. All you can do is try and be friendly and not burn anything. I live in constant fear of saying something I regret in the heat of the moment.Children. You cant escape them. For the most part theyre okay, but the babies will cry, cutlery will be thrown around, voices are always raised. Some children really are the spawn of the Devil though. This isnt always down to bad parenting. Ive had children run into the kitchen in the middle of busy Saturday service, draw with snot on the squeeze screens (I have to clean those you know!), vomit, incessantly cry until a parent has to take them outside. Having a crying child in a hot, smoky, busy environment is just want everyone needs.Its not all bad though, there are some good reasons to work in an open kitchen:Its your show. Yes, people stare, but not always because theyre hungry. Sometimes they are just interested in what you do for a living. You get used to groups of people crowding round to watch their food being made. Multitasking looks impressive when its busy.You hear indirect feedback. I love the wow factor - When a customer receives the food youve just spent 20 minutes to prepare and you hear wow or wow thats amazing. Better yet, they take a photo. That photo goes on to social media and turns into free advertising for your restaurant.You know when youre about to get busy. This is a blessing. You can see new customers; you can measure how busy youre going to get and for how long. This gives you time to prep, get breaks out of the way, train new staff, go the toilet - it takes the guesswork out of the all important time management.Mystery shoppers. These are people whose job it is to judge you, your food, the environment. Its generally different people each time, but you get to spot the signs. They order new or promotional items, they always ask to keep the receipt, they are constantly looking around, writing in a notepad and, crucially, they have to take a photo of themselves outside the restaurant. In an open kitchen you get to spot these signs and ensure their food is up to standard (as it should be). Its not just mystery shoppers, it could be the local food critic or your mother/friends/family. These are who I call V.I.Ps.*Sympathy. Ive found some customers will be sympathetic towards you if they can see youre busy, especially if youre by yourself. Ive even received sympathy tips from customers with an accompanying go buy yourself a beer after work, youve learnt it.Communications with front of house are a whole lot easier. You can see them, they can see you. Sometimes you dont even have to say anything to communicate. A nod or a wink or simply calling out which table is ready for their mains is all it takes. It saves time so the customer gets their food quicker. On occasions I can see the waiters are busy and I take out the food myself, or clear tables, or inform a waiter that a table needs their attention. So, like I said its certainly a double edged sword, but its something I definitely enjoy. Its now 10am on Saturday, time to go and get prepared for lunch.