 By keeping it simple.Generally, the part that makes a pizza heavy is the dough. The key to a light and tasty pizza is:Use as little (correctly proven) dough as possible Only a few high quality ingredientsCooked at a high temperature (preferably with a pizza stone)To prove pizza dough to an optimal level, its best to leave it somewhere warm (around 21C to 24C) overnight or until the dough has at least doubled in size. This is important as it creates good conditions for the yeast to break down the starch into sugar for it too consume. The biproducts from this are carbon dioxide and alcohol. The alcohol evaporates and the carbon dioxide creates holes which provides airpockets and gives the dough a nice and light texture.Try using a little passata with only a couple of high quality ingredients such a santos tomatoes with buffalo mozzarella, green or red pesto with some fresh basil and a little garlic oil, cracked black pepper and oregano to season. Keeping it simple will ensure the different taste combinations are complimenting instead of cancelling eachother out. Also, stacking a pizza with too many ingredients will cause it to be burnt on top, yet raw on the bottom. Not a good combination.Another component to a tasty pizza is ensuring its cooked at a high temperature. The dough and toppings will slightly char after about five minutes and will create a lovely smoky taste.Three other aspects which you may want to investigate in is:1) Not using any cheese whatsoever. Yep.. Without cheese, the taste of your ingredients are enhanced (especially with seasoning). Cheese will leave your pizza soggy and oily whilst at the same time killing the taste. A popular pizza I make is a Pianta:Arrabbiata sauce on the base (passata, chilli flakes, parsley and garlic oil)ArtichokesChestnut MushroomsPine NutsBlack OlivesFinished with: Rocket and Olive OilSimple, but oh so tasty. 2) Cut a hole in the middle of the pizza and fill it with salad mix. Less dough, healthy and nutritious (although I always prefer a little dressing).3) Reroll the dough. For this technique you need some overproven dough: Its now more than double in size, it maybe starting to smell like old beer (thats the yeast fermenting the dough) and looking slightly discoloured. To create the best dough, you need to fold the edges back into themselves and reshape the dough back into a ball. Youre quite literally turning it inside out. This traps air and creates the lightest, tastiest base you can get. I highly recommend it if you have a day spare to prepare it. Enjoy!