 Its certainly a double edged sword. I currently work in an open kitchen and have done for over 3 years, for me, I consider it middle house - Not quite front of house, not quite back of house - somewhere in-between. Prior to my present job, I worked for nine years behind closed doors. This allowed me to be a lot more brazen, generally louder and relaxed with my language (swearing can be a British pastime). To begin with, the transition to middle house was somewhat bumpy to say the least. Here are the differences compiled into a handy list:Volume levels have to be kept in check. Sometimes the obligatory sneeze screens dont muffle your voice as much as you think. Our TripAdvisor scores are generally good, but I did make it clear that if a customer is allergic to pepper, they have a right to tell the waitress so the kitchen can take the necessary allergy containment steps. Unfortunately, the customer heard my complaint and wrote a complaint themselves.Figuratively, you work in a goldfish bowl. People stare. People stare a lot. Its often awkward, downright wearisome and perpetually perturbing. I understand people are hungry or just interested in what youre doing, but anyone would feel distracted when they look up to see ten+ pairs of eyes trained on their every move. The kitchen is set towards the back of the room, so its my prerogative to check incoming and outgoing customers for effective time/team management. Its really easy for people to think youre looking at them, when in fact you just want to Get. Stuff. Done.The music is humdrum. Music has always been a staple of a kitchen environment (except for when its busy). Working in an open kitchen subjects you to the restaurant music. Theres no freedom of choice. Its repetitive, distracting and mind-numbing. The only chance of a respite is on an open when I insist on earphones for some personal music time. Everyone knows when you make a mistake. You burn something, it happens. Unfortunately, in an open kitchen the room fills with smoke, theres no escaping it, the extractor fan can only do so much. Customers dont like this very much, especially when theyre hungry. It automatically makes you look like an amateur. Drop something? Prepare for a room full of people turn round to stare at you, the noise of crockery smashing feels like it lasts for minutes.You have to look happy. Hangovers happen, illness happens, sleep deprivation, fatigue, work politics, hangryness (that grumpy irritable feeling when youre hungry) through it all you have to look happy, youre a representative of the restaurant. You have to interact with customers. I believe in this world you have the kind of people who choose to be back of house and those who prefer it out front. Introvert vs extrovert if you will. FOH have to deal with the general public all day and, well, some customers are just plain weird. FOH are representatives of the restaurant - always happy to help, making the customer feel welcome and relaxed and are there to provide a pleasing atmosphere (there is a whole lot of two facedness with customers). All of this takes confidence, especially with strangers. Back of house are the pistons in the hospitality engine. They work hard under pressure, in a hot, often greasy environment, to provide the eating