 Having grown up through the 90s, I made a fair few fashion choices which may have been considered in vogue at the time, but maybe less so now. This doesnt mean I dont miss the baggy jeans and bomber jackets et al. Here are some examples of the 90s British fashion culture:Dready/Eclipse/Spliffy jeans:These were iconic. Little embroidered characters on massive, baggy jeans with huge leg length pockets. The look wouldnt be complete without the bottoms ripped and torn up from dragging through puddles and dog dirt. I also found water would soak up the legs to at least thigh height.Global Hypercolor T-shirts:The epitome of cool. I remember seeing these everywhere. I know they were a product of the 80s, but I live in an area far removed from modern culture. Back then, it took longer than usual for trends to catch on. I had an orange into yellow one. The problem was they also highlighted sweat marks - not a good look!N.A.S.A Nice And Safe Attitude bomber jackets:These are pretty rare now (probably because they may have been sued by the real NASA). Owning one of these jackets was like owning the Holy Grail. Record label merchandise was hot property back then, you just werent down with the kids unless you had Technics written across your chest. Kangaroo shoes: Apparently people would use the stash pocket to hide drugs. I used it to store my 50p pocket money. My pair were in the delightful colour combination of red, yellow and blue.The shell suit:Yes, I remember owning one these. Again, it was in red and yellow, but back in the early 90s the garishness was considered wholly acceptable. My mum told me I had to stop wearing mine after the world found out how combustible they were.Dummy necklace:Again, not know the drug connotation until much later, I had one of these necklaces. Being young and impressionable has a lot to answer for. Just because I wasnt old enough to go to raves didnt mean I couldnt wear the apparel (and paraphernalia it seems).Holographic sunglasses:During the 90s there was a holographic pandemic. Fashion was awash with a shiny, rainbow sheen. Everything from backpacks, to crop tops to shoes, to pencil cases were draped in space age holograms. I even remember my crisp packets were holographic. There seems to be some degree of 90s fashion revival at the moment, so I feel like I could wear most of these things again. Not because they look good - the 90s had some horrendous fashion disasters - but because they now have a certain level of retro appeal. I know I could walk out of my house in full 90s garb and garner some level of respect (or ridicule, I havent decided which).http://jnco.com/product-category...http://www.ebay.co.uk/bhp/alpha-...http://www.amazon.co.uk/KangaROO...http://www.for-sale.co.uk/shell-...https://www.etsy.com/uk/market/p...http://www.ebay.co.uk/sch/i.html...