 The general consensus of this thread is yes, some restaurants (eateries, if you will) allow people to eat leftovers, so Ill add my two cents.I worked somewhere in which a front of house was continually eating the leftovers. Fine, right? No, because he was eating leftovers straight off the customers plate as soon as he entered the kitchen. Ew. These were the thoughts running through my head (as well as trying to keep control of the kitchen and the team):1) Thats disgusting.2) Who knows where that customer has been. Have they washed their hands? Have they dribbled on the plate? Has they spat out that food? 3) Now youve put your hand to your mouth and youre going to take out another order? This is how infections start.4) Why do you feel you the need to eat when we wont be eating for another couple of hours, if at all.After the third time I had to stop what I was doing and have a word. He didnt seem to think there were any problems with it, which actually surprised me. I informed the restaurant manager and we both agreed something had to be done. To my surprise, there wasnt any specific policy about it (unless you call it theft), so we made one up: no eating from customers plates. Three strikes and youre out. We held a meeting, in which he attended to make sure everyone was aware of the new rule. Simple. And Guess what, within two weeks he hadnt learnt his lesson and was fired. To fall in line with the premise of the question, my place of work is quite relaxed about leftovers/wastage/mistakes. I work in an Italian restaurant where the focus is pizza. This allows for huge overheads: A piece of dough costs 5p, passata and mozzarella costs 10p, we sell a margarita for 8.99. We deal with a lot of fresh food, so theres a justified amount of wastage, were allowed to take home what we want. Mistakes can be eaten away from the public eye.The thing is We all get free food. You may think this is a good thing and to a degree it is, but its a double edged sword. The problem is, we have to eat the same food day in day out. This makes it incredibly boring. I used to enjoy Italian food, but Im now sick of it. The only thing it provides is relief from the nagging pain in the pit of my stomach. So, in actual fact, I, and no one else wants to take home the leftovers. Its reverse psychology!