 You wrongfully assume people aren't dating as often. I work in an open kitchen and believe me, we get to see a lot of people on dates. Valentines day is always fully booked.There's a few key differences between dating now and what UK dating was like in the 90's.(I was a teenager in the 90's)  Communication had to be more organised. Phone calls had to be made via a landline or a phone box. None of this SMS business where you could leave a message to be read later. There would be times when youd literally have to sit next to your phone and wait. And wait. And wait until you need the toilet because thats the only time it would ring.  It took effort to find someone. Meeting potential life partners usually meant going to a local bar or club (meat markets) or through a friend of a friend. A meat market person didnt usually end up being too deep and meaningful. Dating a friend of a friend was based around a convoluted routine:1) Let your friends know you fancy her/him. They would tell them and find out if they fancy you.2) Start meeting the object of your affections at social, crowded gatherings and make prolonged eye contact followed by maybe even talking (probably about the weather).3) Acquire their phone number and hang out by the landline in anticipation of a prolonged chat (usually including the weather).4) Start by holding hands, after a week get off/snog one another in full view of everyone. This was a way of earning kudos. 5) Achieve going out together status. Once GOT status was ascertained , everyone will presume you were having sex at every conceivable opportunity. More kudos.6) Hang out in each others bedrooms, where you'd bitch about your parents, do compatibility quizzes and make friendship bracelets.6) Break up because it turns out she was into Oasis and youre into Blur. 7) Start again.  You didnt know what you were letting yourself in for. Its normal these days to indulge in a little online research to help ensure youre not going on a date with an axe murderer. Things werent so easy in the 90s, especially if you met someone in a pub or club. Youd have to rely on rumours, which is never a good thing.  You had limited sex education. Nowadays you can find instructional videos in seconds. Back then, sex education was either via an embarrassed teacher putting a condom on a banana, daytime educational shows on TV (oh the sheer joy of turning on Channel 4 after pulling a sickie and looking at drawings of female anatomy), rumours from your friends (never a good thing) or finding a porn mag in a hedge.   You had to make conversation. When it finally happened and you actually managed to go on a date, you had to make conversation using your actual mouth and words and inflection. This was a deal breaker. You couldnt just show your favourite cat pics, or YouTube videos or memes. You had to at least seem interested and engage in banter.  You had to make an effort. Back in the 90s, if you really fancied someone, youd make them a mixtape and/or write a love letter. A mixtape would contain some choice songs, usually recorded from the radio, which conveyed you were deep into music and knew just the right song to play at just the right moment of any situation. They conveyed your personality and how ambitious you were with your creativity. A love letter would show how in touch you were with your feelings. It would demonstrate your use of vocabulary. It was slow, but this was good. A love letter builds anticipation. Not only that, you could do one thing that an email or any kind of online message cant do: You could impregnate it with a scent - usually CK One. This makes it so much more personal.  There were no digital footprints. You could physically tell your friends what happened the night before, but you didnt have to let them know. You could get up to absolutely anything and not be concerned about whether youd left your geolocation on by accident. You could effectively be unreachable from the second you left the house. This gave you an air of mystery, which is instantly desirable.   There were no digital footprints (part 2). There was no scrolling through someones Twitter feed, no looking at past girl/boyfriends on Facebook, no WhatsApp last seens. You could meet someone randomly, have some fun and if, for whatever reason, you forgot their surname, that could be it. Forever. Love could be a lot more fleeting. There was none of this looking-someone-up-after-a-few-years-of-singledom-to-see-they-are-now-successful-with-a-beautiful-girlfriend-and-a-child-on-the-way stuff. Which always makes everything a 100 times worse.So in conclusion (tl;dr): dating was simpler, yet hard work. Everything was more private, yet fleeting. You had to be more organised and creative.