 One of the defence mechanisms that caught my eye is from the goliath birdeater tarantula of South America - The largest spider by sheer mass in the world. It can grow to nearly a foot across, with fangs of an inch. These fangs are used to paralyse their prey - frogs, small snakes, beetles, lizards, bats and of course baby birds - which are then taken back to its burrow. The spider lacks teeth so it vomits on its victims until the skin tissue is soft enough to suck up.Fortunately, the goliath is quite placid around humans and will only bite when threatened. The venom feels like a wasp sting and wears off after a few hours.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...A clip from Steve Backshall's Deadly 60 program in which he handles the worlds biggest spiderThis isnt the reason the spider caught my proverbial eye, no, not only does it have an altogether lacklustre bite, it also has an ability to flick Urticating hair from its body. The tiny, almost invisible hairs it flicks through the air are extremely irritating to our skin, and can cause real problems if they get into delicate mucous membranes around our eyes and mouth. It also rubs its fangs against its legs to give a warning hiss.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...A goliath birdeater hissingWhat with their 74-80 sharp teeth and armour plating and powerful tail, alligators have been around for approximately 150 million years. This has given them enough time to evolve into one of natures greatest predators. Males can grow to an average of 15 feet and weigh as much as 1000lbs. They grow to this size by grazing on fish, turtles, snakes, and small mammals as well as the occasional human and pretty anything it can get its jaws into.This is all well and good, but for me, this isnt the most interesting thing about an alligator: As well as crocodiles, they are also extremely good at defending themselves on a microbiological level. According to Australian scientist Adam Britton they have a ferocious immune system that latches on to bacteria, tears it apart and then explodes. It's like putting a gun to the head of the bacteria and pulling the trigger. The immunity is so strong it can take down a vast range of viruses, bacteria and other infectious microbes, including HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. This could potentially be a massive positive boon as a serum for human patients who need extra help in preventing infections. The only problem is the serum is so strong its proving to be toxic. If we can harness this toxicity we could be heading towards a major medical breakthrough.