 grew to find annoying and so hed had the mans eyes stitched shut too.Luseferous had had his genitals enhanced in all sorts of ways. One improvement was that he carried glands inside his body which allowed him to produce many different secretions which his ejaculate could then carry into the bodies of others (but whose effects he was proof against, obviously), including irritants, hallucinogens, cannabinoids, capsainoids, sleeping draughts and truth serums. He went briefly into the little-death little-trance, the petit mal which allowed him to select one of these, and chose the last-mentioned, the truth drug. He took the girl anally; it was faster-acting that way... It emerged that she thought he was horribly ancient and weird-looking and a frightening, sick-minded old sadist and she absolutely hated being fucked by him. He thought about inseminating her with thanaticin, or employing one of the physical options his remade penis made possible: the shaved horsetail, perhaps. Or just injecting her into the vacuum and watching her die. In the end, Luseferous decided that letting her live with such constant degradation was punishment enough. He'd always said he preferred being despised, after all. He would make her his favourite. Probably wise to put her on suicide watch, too.There was a rasping noise and a heavy thump from inside the tank, followed by some almost inaudibly high keening sounds. Luseferous turned to watch the Recondite Splicer tear the giant leeches apart and eat them, violently shaking its great patchily brown head and tossing some bits of slimy black flesh all the way out of the tank. Once it had thrown a still-alive leech up and out of the tank and nearly hit the Archimandrite with it; Luseferous had chased the injured leech round the chamber with a shear-sword, cleaving deep slivers out of the dark red granite floor as he hacked and sliced at the creature. When the show in the tank was over, the Archimandrite turned back to the assassin. He put the elbow glove back on, picked another trunk-leech from the pot and strolled over to the man attached to the wall. Do you remember home, sir assassin? he asked as he approached. Is there any memory of it in your head at all, hmm? Home, mother, friends? He stopped in front of the man. Any of that stuff at all? He waved the leechs moist, seeking snout in front of the assassins face as he spoke. They sensed each other, the cold, writhing creature in the Archimandrites hand stretching out to try to fasten itself to the mans face, the man sucking breath through his nostrils and turning his head as far as it would go, seeming to try and shrink back into the wall behind (this would not be the first time the assassin had been introduced to a trunk-leech). The tusks digging into his chest prevented him from moving his head very far. Luseferous followed the movements of the mans head with the leech, keeping it in front of his lightly furred, leonine face, letting him smell the straining, quivering mass. Or did they rip out all those memories when they cleaned you, before they sent you to try to kill me? Huh? Are they all gone? Eh? He let the very tip of the trunk-leechs mouth parts just touch the fellows nose, causing the failed assassin to wince and jerk and make a small, terrified whimpering noise. What, eh? Do you remember home, eh, sport? A pleasant place to be, a place you felt safe and secure and with people you trusted, and who maybe even loved you? What do you say? Eh? Eh? Come on. The man tried to turn his head still further, straining the puckered skin around the puncture points on his chest, one of which started to bleed. The giant leech trembled in Luseferouss hand, stretching its mucus-tipped mouth parts still further as it tried to find purchase on the human males flesh. Then, before the leech could properly attach itself to the fellow, the Archimandrite pulled it back and let it hang from his half-outstretched arm, where it swung and twisted muscularly with what felt for all the world like genuine frustration.I like my home, he told the fellow quietly. I do, really. Everything Ive had to do, Ive done just to make things safer, to make home safer, to make everybody safer. He waved the trunk-leech towards what was left of the mans genitalia, but the leech seemed listless and the man already exhausted. Even the Archimandrite felt like some of the fun had gone out of the situation. He turned smartly and strode to the pot on the broad rail over the tank, dumping the leech inside and peeling the thick elbow glove off.We are serious, Luseferous told the Dwellers. He stood. Do you hear that noise? He turned his head, as though listening. The dull ticking noise went on; steady, remorseless. That is a drop-bomb chute, firing once a second. Only in this case it is firing people, not warheads. Unprotected human beings are being thrown into space towards your planet at a rate of over three thousand per hour. They are men, women and children, old and young adults, people from all walks of life, mostly captured from surrendering ships and damaged habitats. We have over twenty thousand of them aboard. They will continue to be fired at this rate until we make some sort of progress here. He waited for some sort of reaction from the three Dwellers, but they just kept on looking at the view. Now, he continued, do any of us here present think we might have just remembered anything useful? He watched the people and the aliens staring at the stippled line of black dots moving slowly away from the great ship. A few people turned to look at him, then looked away when he met their gaze, trying to hide hatred and fear and horror. Odd how people reacted so severely to something unpleasant happening right in front of them but were prepared to ignore much worse horrors taking place elsewhere. He is calculating and truly maliciously evil. I cant think of a villain who would go to such degradation just for his own malevolent gratification. He is pompous, over-the-top and unbelievable in his callous audacity. Not bad for just being a man.