 There are many places in the world with huge contrasts between city life and rural life. I cant speak for everywhere, but I can offer some UK based wisdom. Ive grown up in the rural area called North Devon for 29 years. The population is of a relatively low density; theres only a few towns. Devon is also home to the largest open space in southern England: Dartmoor.In comparison to Devon (population 748,000 for the whole county), Ive lived in Melbourne, Australia (population 4.5 million) for a year, visited and stayed in a few cities throughout Europe and the UK and my Significant Other is a city girl. These are my credentials for this answer.Until the invention of the internet, it felt like, to a degree, that we were cut off from society. I mean, theres roads (the UK isnt a third world country), but many people choose to live here for The Simple Life. There are several key benefits to The Simple Life: Less stress. Theres a different pace of life here, its far more relaxed than the cities. Its for this reason many people dont like the hustle and bustle of built up urban areas - everyone seems to be in a rush.Money isnt as much of a priority. When you have a relatively low wage, but youre still subject to the same taxes and living costs, you learn to enjoy what you have (with a treat every once and a while). You start to appreciate good memories over material things (which usually end up breaking after a while). This is why I enjoy photography, its a visual representation of a memory. You have an affinity with nature. Within a 20 minute walk Im in the countryside. The rumble of modern society is barely noticeable. Fresh air fills my lungs. Im surrounded by flora and fauna. I dont have to see *anyone.* Within a 30 minute drive Im in the wilderness of Exmoor (Dartmoors younger brother) - 268 square miles of moorland, woodland, rivers and inaccessible shoreline. This is the kind of place you can live off the land like we did back in the day. Here is an example of someone (with an excellent name) who did just that: http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/.... Hope is certainly living The Simple Life as she was on the verge of being part of the rural homeless community. In some ways being homeless in the countryside is easier than the cities. You can find fresh, clean water. Living off the land is achievable (whether its stealing from farmland or growing your own veg, fishing, setting traps for rabbits, mice, birds etc). Theres privacy, no one cares about what you look like and what you do because there is no one there to care about what you look like and what you do. You can become at one with nature.There are fewer serious crimes. Murder is a rarity, when it happens, its big news, it sends the community into a state of shock. There is an undercurrent of drug use because, well, theres little else to do. Burglary is fairly high because its easy to become complacent about privacy. Violence will happen usually as a consequence of alcohol, again because theres little else to do. Drink driving is a problem. The crucial difference to city life here is Ive never felt threatened walking around at night. Ive never been mugged or even approached by anyone asking more than just the time or a lighter. Theres no terrorist threat.Its quiet (obviously). Even living directly in the middle of my small town, above a road (and a Subway) theres virtually no noise except for the bloody seagulls. Saturday nights get quiet after midnight and even then Im only a 10 minute walk from quietness.Personal education. Class sizes are smaller, which provides more of a one on one education experience. Overall, research shows that students in smaller classes perform better in all subjects and on all assessments when compared to their peers in larger classes. In smaller classes, students tend to be as much as one to two months ahead in content knowledge, and they score higher on standardised assessments.So The Simple Life has its upsides, but lets compare it to urban life:Culture happens. Clubs are open to the early hours so I can listen to my favourite genres of music whenever I choose. The comedy circuit isnt a once a year event, its a year round constant - I love comedy and finding new comedians to tickle my funny bone. I can visit museums and galleries and view the works Ive only seen in books or the internet. Theres street art and performances, talks, festivals and theatre.Everything is convenient. I can go out and know I wont need to cut the night short to get home on the last bus/train. If I need medical attention, there will be help nearby. If I need food theres cafes, restaurants, food markets and supermarkets with everything Ill ever need.Increased opportunity. Life in the city gives you more opportunities in life, this is fact. There are far more jobs, places to live, educational options, and business advantages. All of this gives you a better start in life. There is simply more choice with everything.Cultural diversity. Like it or loath it, the UK is a diverse place. There is a range of different societies of different origins, religions and traditions all living and interacting together. Multiculturalism creates a rich social tapestry in UK culture, from the food on the high street, to music we listen to, to the religion and language.Theres simply more people. No longer do you run out of profiles on Tinder. An outdoor party or festival has an atmosphere. Its easier to meet a life long partner or friend.These are all key advantages to growing up in the urban sprawl and as Im growing older, I feel like Im missing out. There are some obvious disadvantages to living rurally and in a city.Rural LivingIt can be inconvenient. Theres a huge swathe of acreage with little to no internet access, let alone phone reception. To get anywhere or do anything you need transport. Bus fares mount up, petrol/diesel/car maintenance is expensive. Taxis are ridiculous. Getting stranded is a real problem. With heavy rain or snow youre likely to get cut off for days at a time. With preparation, this doesnt have to be too much of a problem. Without preparation it could be potentially life threatening.Amenities close early. Its a Sunday evening and youve run out of coriander, better go to the sho Oh no wait a minute, it closes at 4pm. The nearest supermarket is an hours drive each way, by that time dinner will be ruined - so thats no coriander then. Someones stolen your garden gnome, better go to the poli.. Oh no, its closed. Okay, so you want to get the bus into town. Its at 11:43am, you get there in plenty of ti.. Oh no, its a Saturday, the bus is at 9:27am. There. Are. No. More. Buses. Missed the last bus home? Tough.The smell of the country. Its just one of those things, farmers need to fertilise their soil, so they use natures fertiliser: manure. It does rather pong and if youre in a car, train or bus, it will hit you in the face like a slap with a trout. Ive gotten used to it over the years, but its been a long uphill struggle to get accustomed to it.Gossip and rumour. Because so little goes on in the rural communities, gossip is rife. There is a demand for people knowing other peoples business, regardless of how petty it is. Theres often a community clique. Sometimes the same people are in the neighbourhood watch, are school governors, run the PTA, belong to the WI, run the Brownies or scouts, etc, and if you don't fit in, both you and your family could get snubbed or at least treated differently to everyone else.Racism. There is a lack of diversity in the small communities, this can lead to scepticism of outsiders from the (mostly) older, close-minded generations. This is a simple fact of UK rural living, although it is quite literally dying out.Smaller schools. There maybe fewer pupils, but theres also less money for equipment, the classes are of a mixed age, theres the constant threat of closure.Cabin fever.Urban livingPollution. If you want to leave your abode for a walk or a short journey, theres no escaping it (unless perhaps you want to wear a gas mask). It covers the city in a noxious shroud, it covers buildings, it strangles trees and your lungs. Noise. There will always be an abundance of noise, group people together and theres all sorts of noise. Peace and quiet maybe hard to come by, but like manure, my brain will filter it out over time.People. Because there is a higher concentration of people, theres a higher concentration of weird people - the kind of people you probably wouldnt want to meet your mother. Theres also more homeless people vying for your attention. Theres little chance of getting away from prying eyes. There maybe more jobs, but there is also more people applying for jobsSecurity. The cities are home to digital prying eyes too - CCTV. If you have nothing to hide, personally I dont see it as a bad thing, but many people do.Cost Of Living. Expenses are high in the city. Owning or even renting a centrally located home can be many times more expensive than the rural counterparts (this is despite an increase in wages). Even living on the outskirts and commuting into the city centre can mount up over the course of a year (Oyster cards for zones 1-6 in London cost 2344 annually). Restaurants are typically more expensive, shopping is more expensive (without research), pubs and bars are more expensive etc.Crime. More people, more crime. This is a simple fact of city living. I mean, of course, theres crime in the rural communities, but there are fewer criminal gangs. CCTV and a police presence go some way to help control the gangs, but crime is still going to happen regardless.To conclude, at 32 years of age, I've had my fill of (semi) rural life. The cost of living vs wages problem has had a profound effect on my growing up. I'm about ready to move on to seek new opportunities and with determination and support I will find them. I will always have an affinity with nature, but I also love British culture, something that's sorely missing in this corner of the world. I can't face living here any longer without at least trying to make something of my life. Carpe diem.