 of different origins, religions and traditions all living and interacting together. Multiculturalism creates a rich social tapestry in UK culture, from the food on the high street, to music we listen to, to the religion and language.Theres simply more people. No longer do you run out of profiles on Tinder. An outdoor party or festival has an atmosphere. Its easier to meet a life long partner or friend.These are all key advantages to growing up in the urban sprawl and as Im growing older, I feel like Im missing out. There are some obvious disadvantages to living rurally and in a city.Rural LivingIt can be inconvenient. Theres a huge swathe of acreage with little to no internet access, let alone phone reception. To get anywhere or do anything you need transport. Bus fares mount up, petrol/diesel/car maintenance is expensive. Taxis are ridiculous. Getting stranded is a real problem. With heavy rain or snow youre likely to get cut off for days at a time. With preparation, this doesnt have to be too much of a problem. Without preparation it could be potentially life threatening.Amenities close early. Its a Sunday evening and youve run out of coriander, better go to the sho Oh no wait a minute, it closes at 4pm. The nearest supermarket is an hours drive each way, by that time dinner will be ruined - so thats no coriander then. Someones stolen your garden gnome, better go to the poli.. Oh no, its closed. Okay, so you want to get the bus into town. Its at 11:43am, you get there in plenty of ti.. Oh no, its a Saturday, the bus is at 9:27am. There. Are. No. More. Buses. Missed the last bus home? Tough.The smell of the country. Its just one of those things, farmers need to fertilise their soil, so they use natures fertiliser: manure. It does rather pong and if youre in a car, train or bus, it will hit you in the face like a slap with a trout. Ive gotten used to it over the years, but its been a long uphill struggle to get accustomed to it.Gossip and rumour. Because so little goes on in the rural communities, gossip is rife. There is a demand for people knowing other peoples business, regardless of how petty it is. Theres often a community clique. Sometimes the same people are in the neighbourhood watch, are school governors, run the PTA, belong to the WI, run the Brownies or scouts, etc, and if you don't fit in, both you and your family could get snubbed or at least treated differently to everyone else.Racism. There is a lack of diversity in the small communities, this can lead to scepticism of outsiders from the (mostly) older, close-minded generations. This is a simple fact of UK rural living, although it is quite literally dying out.Smaller schools. There maybe fewer pupils, but theres also less money for equipment, the classes are of a mixed age, theres the constant threat of closure.Cabin fever.Urban livingPollution. If you want to leave your abode for a walk or a short journey, theres no escaping it (unless perhaps you want to wear a gas mask). It covers the city in a noxious shroud, it covers buildings, it strangles trees and your lungs. Noise. There will always be an abundance of noise, group people together and theres all sorts of noise. Peace and quiet maybe hard to come by, but like manure, my brain will filter it out over time.People. Because there is a higher concentration of people, theres a higher concentration of weird people - the kind of people you probably wouldnt want to meet your mother. Theres also more homeless people vying for your attention. Theres little chance of getting away from prying eyes. There maybe more jobs, but there is also more people applying for jobsSecurity. The cities are home to digital prying eyes too - CCTV. If you have nothing to hide, personally I dont see it as a bad thing, but many people do.Cost Of Living. Expenses are high in the city. Owning or even renting a centrally located home can be many times more expensive than the rural counterparts (this is despite an increase in wages). Even living on the outskirts and commuting into the city centre can mount up over the course of a year (Oyster cards for zones 1-6 in London cost 2344 annually). Restaurants are typically more expensive, shopping is more expensive (without research), pubs and bars are more expensive etc.Crime. More people, more crime. This is a simple fact of city living. I mean, of course, theres crime in the rural communities, but there are fewer criminal gangs. CCTV and a police presence go some way to help control the gangs, but crime is still going to happen regardless.To conclude, at 32 years of age, I've had my fill of (semi) rural life. The cost of living vs wages problem has had a profound effect on my growing up. I'm about ready to move on to seek new opportunities and with determination and support I will find them. I will always have an affinity with nature, but I also love British culture, something that's sorely missing in this corner of the world. I can't face living here any longer without at least trying to make something of my life. Carpe diem.