 Compared to being the father to a baby, a toddler is childs play (geddit?). At 3 years old, my son Elijah is just about 6 months further along the potholed, often sodden road to adulthood from toddlerhood, and its joyous. Hes a miniature sponge, figuratively and, well, he does try to absorb his dinner through osmosis. He even laughs at my frequent lame jokes, which I use as a form of torture. This is a good time to be a dad to a child.Times werent always so rosy, inevitably you hit some potholes. The word no becomes more frequent, tantrums are intense. All attention has to be on him, whether its at home or in public. The toilet is always a gajillion miles away. A good nights sleep is worth a gold star and here we hit the crux of the question like a pair of poo filled pants to the face:Sleep.Or lack thereof. I know its part of parenthood, I know it cant be helped, but the early mornings are something I seriously struggle with. I work as a chef, sometimes not finishing until 10:30pm, its natural for me to awake late into the evening. When my darling little munchkin decides the only way to rouse me is to either A) tickle my feet or B) jump on my tummy shouting daddy daddy its time to wake up!, my patience is a little Tested. Especially at 6am. The saving grace is he would have a nap in the afternoon, this means I could too (I mean, Im only 32, I thought afternoon naps were for old people Sadly no). The problem was compounded when I had the early start plus a day of working in a hot, pressured kitchen surrounded by knives. Many of them sharp. Caffeine was (and still is) my friend. Things are a little easier now because he doesnt mind reading or playing, even if its just for a little while. That half an hour of extra solace is a blessing. It amuses me when I know he will turn into that odious beast known as a teenager who will sleep long into the afternoon. Then it will be my turn to wake him up. Maybe Ill tickle his feet (no chance) or bounce on his stomach (asking for trouble), or perhaps as my mum did to me: vacuum - sorry, there was a speck of dust I really needed to dispose of. Retribution will be mine muhaha.