 1. Shoot in good lighting More than anything else: seek out good lighting. Lighting matters more than anything else. Seriously. An awesome photographer with a professional camera will take a lousy photo if the lighting is bad.The best time to take a photo is around sunrise and sunset. Blue Hour, a short period of time direct before sunrise and after sunset, also produces great photos.If you are taking a photo of a person in the sun, make them step into the shade. Shadows are unflattering and will make your subject look like they bags under their eyes--never a flattering look.If you are indoors, stand near a window. Florescent lighting makes skin tones look off and unflattering, and again, will give under-eye bags. If its too dark, your photo will be grainy, and will look lousy. You can get away with dark shots, if you are using a higher quality (read: Full Frame) camera. If you are using a poor quality camera or phone camera, and its very dark, don't even waste your time: you'll get red eye, and a grainy crappy photo. 2. Dont use a flashDon't think you can skip rule #1, and get away with taking a photo in poor lighting by using camera flash. It will give your subject red eye, and forehead glare. It also gives skin tones a strange color. Flash washes people out, and makes skin look oily-- it is not flattering. Professionals can get away with using fancy lighting, and off camera flash. However, it takes some serious talent, skill, and practice to learn studio lighting. 3. Simplify the backgroundDe-clutter. Aim for a simple background. Before taking the picture, check all corners in the frame, and everything in the background. A messy room, or branch coming out of your subject's head, will ruin an otherwise flattering photo. If you are somewhere interesting, or have another interesting element in the frame, take the photo with your subject to the side of the image.4. Take photos from above, not from below, your subject Generally for more flattering photos, shoot with the camera slightly above people's heads. Think back to that myspace angle. Think I'm kidding? Nope. Ok Cupid researched which Profile Pictures got the most messages, and it turns out the MySpace shot is, "the single most effective photo type for women."(Source: The 4 Big Myths of Profile Pictures)For men, you can shoot up at your subject. They will look bigger, and if you are aiming to make them look more imposing, then go for it.5. Adjust your perspectiveTry a few shots and experiment. First shoot straight on, then with the person parallel to the camera, then turn slightly to the left and then slightly to the right, and see what looks best. Move around. Try shooting from chairs, or from the ground. I also like getting eye level with the subject, it creates more intimacy. 