 Gold purity is measured in carats, so the difference between 10kt, 14kt, 18kt, and 22 kt refers to how pure the gold is. Higher carats = higher gold percentage, which is more more valuable. Higher carat gold also has a much more vivid yellow color. Higher carat gold is also a lot softer and less durable than lower carat gold. Subsequently, a cheaper, 10k gold ring will be more durable, but less bright and lustrous, than a more valuable 22 carat gold ring. Gold is very soft-- it measures 2.5-3 on the Mohs scale of mineral hardness. Diamonds measure around 10. You can probably leave a bite mark if you bite really hard into 24 carat gold. This softness makes gold easy to work with, but other alloys need to be added to make more durable jewelry. Typically, Silver, Copper, Nickel, Tin, Palladium, Zinc and Manganese are added to non-24 karat "Gold" jewelry.Personal preference depends a lot on the desired color, price, durability, and also allergies. Many people are allergic to alloys (commonly Nickel) and cannot wear lower quality "gold" without breaking out in rashes. 24K = the purest gold. Bright yellow and very soft and expensive. Most Americans have never even seen 24k gold jewelry. It is very rare in the US, because it bends, dings, dents, and scratches easily.22k = ~ 92% pure gold. The standard in the high-end Indian, Asian, and Middle Eastern markets. 22k gold is very vivid and has a bright yellow color. It's more exquisite and valuable for investment.  18k = ~ 75% pure gold. The standard in the European market and the choice for high-end fine jewelry in the US. It is more vivid than 14k gold, but duller than 22k. It doesn't tarnish as easily as lower quality carats, but is more sensitive to dings and dents. 14k = ~ 59 % pure gold. The most popular choice in the US, due to lower cost and higher durability than 18k. It is less vivid in color to 18k gold, but it's stronger and therefore more resistant to showing wear and tear. 10k = ~ 42% pure gold. The minimum karat that can be called gold in the US. 10k gold is more alloy than gold. It is the cheapest and most durable gold jewelry. The color is less rich and vivid, and it will tarnish more quickly. Due to high alloy content, it is also the most likely to cause skin allergies.