 The best topic for a 10 minute presentation will depend on your audience. If success in real estate is: location, location, location. Success in presentations is: audience, audience, audience. The best topics will impact your audience in a positive way. To figure out the best topic, you need to answer a few questions first. Specifically:Who are you speaking to? Don't focus on topics for yourself, but rather what will be most useful for the audience. Tailor your presentation to them. Research ahead of time as much as you can, as to who you will be presenting to. Cut out anything that doesn't directly pertain to them. For example, if you are giving a talk on black holes, the topic for a general audience will be high-level and basic: "What is a black hole?" If you are giving a talk to astrophysics your talk will be more specific and topical, like: "Is there a black hole at the center of every galaxy?"People have short attention spans, even during a 10 minute presentation. Stick only to what is important to your specific audience.Why are you giving the presentation? People are busy and the fact that they are showing up to your presentation shows that there is interest in your topic. Why are they coming to hear you speak? Why do they care? Give the audience what they came for. People have showed up for a reason. Keep that in mind. Tell the audience clearly why you are there, and why you are excited to speak to them. People respond to passion and conviction. Speak to what is relevant to them, and tell them why you believe it is relevant for them. If you've been given an open mic, and really don't know what to speak about, people are generally interested in topics like the following:Making money & getting richImproving productivity & saving timeBecoming more attractive & well likedInteresting stories & antidotes about celebrities (depending upon your audience can be entertainers, politicians, sports stars, etc)What now? Wrap it up!End the presentation with summarizing what you said, why you said it, and what they should do next. Don't ramble on. After you've told the audience what they need to know, give them a clear call to action. Be positive and proactive. Don't assume that your audience is automatically going to know what to do with what you told them. And don't just hope that they will remember to do it later. Be prepared to get what you want. Make the call to action easy, immediate, and seamless.Finally, if the presentation is 10 minutes. Stick to 10 minutes, or less. People are busy. Respect your audience's time. Start the presentation promptly, and plan to end a bit early. Watch your pacing throughout the presentation and make sure you aren't spending too much time on any one point. By giving yourself a buffer, you'll avoid rushing towards the end. If you have a few minutes left, let the audience know you will stick around if they have any follow up questions or comments. Don't run late, it can inconvenience your audience and leave people feeling rushed and anxious -- not the feelings you want the audience to feel leaving your presentation. Leave people wanting more and always end on a high note.