 Why do some people always succeed in their life? Short answer? They do fail, but they define their own success and they don't give up.Everyone fails at sometime, and at some point. It is impossible to succeed without failure. If you never fail, you are not pushing yourself. It's easy to never fail and to be mediocre. Truly successful people rarely aim low, and they rarely play it safe.As Ken Robinson says, "For most of us the problem isnt that we aim too high and fail - its just the opposite - we aim too low and succeed. (Source: The Element, How Finding Your Passion Changes Everything)First step: successful people aim high. Second step: they don't give up. People who succeed simply keep going, and are persistent. If you can't define what success is, you likely won't be successful! People who succeed in life are specific about what they want. They are laser focused and have concrete goals. How is it that they never seem to fail? Successful people frame rejection and failure as temporary setbacks, rather than as permanent states of being. They don't quit when they have a setback, so the end state is not failure. They keep going until they succeed. So the end state is success. They pivot and change course, but do not stop until they succeed.Most people give up too quickly, and fail to achieve success for no other reason than they stopped trying. Or they keep trying the same thing that isn't working. Successful people realize when things aren't working, so they are quick to change course. They don't define their missteps as failures, so they are more flexible and agile to change. Because they don't view "failure" as deadly, they are more likely to pivot and to try something new. They also are quick to cut the crap. They don't get distracted by things that don't matter. Successful people are quick to leave toxic situations and stay away from people who drag them down. Success is contagious. So when people achieve success, they continue to succeed. Patterns and expectations build. Successful people like to be around other successful people. So, their network improves, and they get others to help them. People respond to, and want to be surrounded, by success.