 For an Indian, coming to the US, I think one of the biggest culture shocks is the difference in romantic relationships, and marriages in the US vs in India. Obviously, the world is a large place and experiences will differ, but generally attitudes towards dating, sex, and marriage are dramatically different in India vs Europe/North America.For example, my Indian colleague once casually asked me if my marriage was, "a love marriage or an arranged marriage?" This made me laugh. For an American, arranged marriage is very rare. For an Indian, arranged marriage is very common.In India, some form of dowry is still common, and culturally expected in many cases. In the US, a man (and his family!) would get a shock if they expected gifts or money from a girl's family. It can still be culturally expected for a bride's family to pay for the wedding, but generally the couple, and both sets of parents chip in. Also, I've never seen a bride's family give the groom or his family gold sets or cash money before, during, or after the wedding. In the US, there is actually more of a culture of "gold diggers," and it is more culturally acceptable for women to expect the men to pay for everything.One of the largest differences that could provide major culture shock is that couples in the US have a lot more independence choosing their relationships and marriages. The families, for the most part, stay out of it. Most US Parents want their children to marry, and want grandchildren, but it isn't culturally acceptable to butt in. A Parent rushing their kid to marry will likely backfire and have the opposite effect. In India, relationships and marriage are more of a family affair. The families in effect marry each other, and Parents have a lot of input into who and when their kids marry. Indian Parents also get involved and generally don't want their children dating or engaging in pre-marital relations. In fact, my Indian friend got into trouble because her fiance only hugged her in front of everybody at their ENGAGEMENT party. It would be unthinkable for them to make-out, like many American couples do -- at parties when they first meet each other. It could be culture shock for a middle aged Indian to walk into a standard male bachelor party in the US. Not just the family, but the broader community in India, pays more attention to romantic relationships, specifically regarding women. For example, if a neighbor in India saw a young girl and boy alone at a restaurant, there is a chance that they would call or visit the girl's family to alert them. And the girl could get into trouble. In the US, nobody really cares. The broader community generally stays out of who dates who. To get a similar response, the couple would need to be practically having sex on the table, or the man would have to be twice the woman's age, etc. Most of my friends in the US dated in school, and again teachers pretty much stayed out of it. In India, I've been told, teachers often would call a girl's parents to tattle if they found that she was dating a guy within her school.Also, the girl's family in India is likely to keep check on the girl and her purity -- at any age. In the US, once a girl turns 18, and is out of the house, they are generally out of their parents control. Many of my American friends lived with a romantic partner before getting married. And in India, this is rare, and if done, likely a secret from their family.People tend to be more sexually open, and provocative dress is also more culturally accepted in the US, and even moreso in parts of Europe. A middle aged or older Indian coming to an American beach could get a culture shock, where most American & European women feel totally comfortable in bikini or even topless.