 Ahhh, the chicken and the egg. How do two-sided marketplaces get people to start using their services? They require both buyers and sellers. And to get people to really start using their service, they need to start with one first: the sellers.A marketplace will succeed only if it has inventory. Buyers and sellers are required on both sides to monetize, but the side that is needed first is the side that provides the goods. For example, all the buyers in the world aren't meaningful if there isn't anything to sell. Similarly, a dating website is only as good as the potential dates on the site. People will start using the service, only after a tremendous amount of work has been done on the backend making the service scalable and launch ready. Again, inventory is king. Fancy marketing, slick websites, or any of that jazz doesn't really mean much. They won't get people to start using a service. Execution is everything in a marketplace. Just look at craigslist. People started using it because it works. For people to start using the service not only does it need to work, but it needs to be easy to sign up and fast to provide value. The fewer steps, the better. These marketplaces get people to start using their service because they make it easy and seamless for people to sell what they want to sell and to buy what they already want to buy. Effective marketplaces get people to start use their services because they provide tangible and compelling benefits: Convenience, Cost, and Consistency:Sellers will start to use a platform if they can be convinced it is a convenient and fast way for them to find buyers. Marketing is difficult, and sellers will start to use a platform that has good SEO, reach, and effectively brings them buyers.By exploiting economics of scale. It is more efficient for these platforms to operate, so sellers can focus on the goods they are providing, not the operations. Buyers will start to use the service when it's easier for them to find what they are looking for by using the marketplace, than by other means. Again, this requires sellers to begin with. Buyers and sellers will only start to use the service if they feel it is legitimate and provides security. They need to financially trust the system. To get sellers started on the system the service needs to have the backend financial system figured out.For example, sellers typically have a pain point accepting money -- It's surprisingly expensive and complicated to deal with accepting, processing and dealing with fraud associated with ACH, credit, cash, check and all the other payment options available today. Fraud and the fees associated with accepting payment can easily wipe out many sellers. The marketplace will need to have this figured out to get sellers to feel comfortable using it. Companies like, Square and PayPal exist solely to help sellers get paid. Payment is such an enormous market, with lots of pain points, that the biggest companies in the valley are taking it on: Apple Pay - Apple, Google Wallet, and Facebook Payments.Buyers also need to feel secure with the system before they will start using it, so the service needs to make buyers comfortable. For instance, I've bought and sold thousands of dollars of camera equipment from Amazon Marketplace. Would I be willing to send $1,400 to D-Solutions in South Korea for a product I've been eyeing??? Nope. However, there is a chance I'll buy this from Amazon Marketplace.