 "The true sign of intelligence is not knowledge, but imagination." Albert EinsteinAlbert Einstein never took an IQ test, so we don't know his IQ. We can assume it was above average, but we can't say if it was 130, 160, or 190. Furthermore, we don't know the IQ of all of his descendants, so it is hard to know for certain that they did not inherit his IQ. There is a lot of controversy about the heritability of IQ, but I'm not sure IQ matters much, especially in the case of Albert Einstein. Today the name Einstein is synonymous with genius. He deserves the moniker, but not because of his IQ alone. Plenty of people, and possibly even some of Einstein's descendants, have similar levels of IQ. But few people, and none of his descendants (so far), have made as much of an impact. There remains only one Albert Einstein. Throughout his life, Einstein proclaimed that, "I have no special talent. I am only passionately curious." He also was at the right place at the right time. World War II, the Manhattan Project and the push to create the bomb placed enormous emphasis on physics. He was given a large stage to flourish and advance. Einstein had talent, and a certain level of IQ/ intelligence. IQ is often believed to determine the upper limit of intelligence, but IQ alone does not guarantee that someone will actually achieve the maximum level. Had he been born in a different time, it is hard to know if Albert Einstein would have been voted Time Magazine's man of the Century. Albert Einstein's well known genius is the culmination and coming together of necessary, and rare, factors including:Capability & IntelligencePassion & DeterminationTiming & OpportunityFamously, Einstein failed entrance to early admission into the Swiss Federal Polytechnical School, and worked at a middling position at the patent office. Yet, Einstein never gave up his search for science and he had tremendous focus. According to Einstein scholar, Hanoch Gutfreund: "If one talks about Einstein in love, his most consistent love from beginning to end was science." Einstein married twice and had 3 children with his first wife, Mileva Maric. His first child, Liesel was born a year before they married, and quickly passed away. Albert and Mileva had two sons together: Hans Albert Einstein and Eduard Einstein.(Source: Einstein's Early Years)(Source: Einstein's Later Years)Hans Albert also became a scientist, and landed at UC Berkeley as a hydraulics professor. Hans Albert's IQ is unknown, but was likely reasonably high. In 1988, the American Society of Civil Engineers created the Hans Albert Einstein Award to recognize achievement in erosion control, sedimentation, and waterway development. Yet, the study of hydraulics, and the younger Einstien's research on river sediment and tidal flows did not capture the word's attention and rapture the way the theory of general relativity and physics did. Albert Einstein wrote in Letters to friends that, Eduard: "The more refined of my sons, the one I considered really of my own nature, was seized by an incurable mental illness." Eduard's schizophrenia prevented him from achieving much in life, and he never married or had children. Hans Albert Einstein had 5 children, 3 of whom died in childhood. Bernhard Caesar Einstein, Hans Albert's eldest son, also became a scientist and worked as a physicist, and engineer. Bernhard Caesar Einstein specialized in electron tube technology, and filed and obtained at least 5 US. patents. He died at age 78, and had 5 children: Thomas, Paul, Eduard, Mira, and Charles.Albert Einstein has many living descendants today that are thriving.  For instance, Thomas Einstein MD, Bernhard Caesar's eldest son, is a successful Anesthesiologist, included in Woodward and White's list of best Doctors in America. He is also fluent in many languages, including German, Spanish, and French. (Source: http://einsteinanesthesia.com/)Paul Michael Einstein and Mira Einstein-Yehieli are also both accomplished musicians. Albert Einstein himself was a talented violinist, and he bequeathed his violin to his grandson Bernhard Caesar, who also shared a love of music. Studies have indicated that Musicians Are Probably Smarter Than The Rest Of Us and some research concludes that musicians tend to have higher IQ scores than their non-musician counterparts. I am not a physicist. But I am married to one, and have picked up some lingo. I can muddle through an answer to What is a sub-gravitational force? I have also met a few Nobel Prize winning physicists and they are different from you and me. But they are also different from each other. It is not simply a matter of having a certain IQ level.