 Common mistakes new managers make have a lot to do with their ability to adapt and change. People who get promoted to management are often competitive and often got promoted by focusing only on their own performance. When they get promoted to management, many people find it difficult to change. As an individual performer, typically, the harder you work, the more successful you are. Management, however, is not so simple. More hours don't necessarily mean more productivity. Micromanagement and overworking your people can backfire and lead to less overall productivity. It's hard to predict when someone is going to quit, make a big mistake, or need a lot of help. Typically as an individual contributor each person is only responsible for their own work. And in cultures without good leadership, poor performers actually help the best people. Great performance looks even better when others aren't performing. People in these winner take all companies will not prioritize or learn how to help others, an integral skill for management. Being a good manager requires empathy, flexibility, and the ability to change course if things aren't working. Inexperienced managers will often have to learn these skills. Motivating people is also not "one size fits all," and inexperienced managers often learn the hard way that what works motivating one person, will not work with another. Surprisingly, I found that people are more motivated to compete when there are fewer competitors, so if you are looking to motivate your team through competition, separate them into smaller teams. When I was first promoted to a manager, my inexperience, and my ego made it difficult for me to share, and ultimately, give away the spotlight. A major challenge I had to overcome was to let go of the things I enjoyed doing and was good at. Things that got me promoted, didn't really matter as much anymore. As a first time manager, I wasn't prepared for the amount of grunt work. A manager's job is often to do the work that nobody else wants, or can, do. New managers will save themselves and their team time and energy if they quickly pick up the slack.Finally, I also learned that people are happier when they are busier, so it's necessary to keep your team busy. Idle time makes people restless and unhappy. Importantly, however, you need to make your team view these tasks as worthwhile. Inexperienced managers often make tasks seem like busywork. Great managers give their team purpose.