 The biggest impediment to innovation and technological creation in India is largely political and cultural. India still struggles with corruption, bureaucracy, inequality, poverty, and lack of infrastructure. But considering that India just gained independence within the last 67 years, things have already come a long way. India's economy is growing. If India is able to continue to improve her political, economic, and cultural environment, I believe she will be able to leverage her knowledge and people to really take off.From an American's perspective:I work in an engineering group at a Fortune 50 Silicon Valley tech firm. The Director, VP, and GM of the IT department are all Indian. Most of their spouses, are also Indians in technology. Indian consultants from WiPro, Infosys, Tata Consulting, and other contracting groups have replaced full time local employees. Walk into any IT department of almost any major tech firm, and you will see more Indians than any other immigrant population. You will often find more Indians than Americas. Indians have conquered Silicon Valley.So, if you ask me: Indians ARE creating technology. The CEO of Microsoft (Satya Nadella), the co-founder of Sun Microsystems and one of the most successful VCs (Vinod Khosla) are Indian. Rajen Sheth, the founder of Google Apps, is Indian. Yes, it is true that many of these individuals are Americans with Indian heritage. However, a large majority of them are also immigrants. I think it is meaningful, because I do not see this type of technological dominance with other ethnic groups. Indians are also beginning to leverage their success abroad and are bringing it back to India. According to Jaideep Prabhu, a professor at Cambridge Judge Business School, The term brain drain is misleading because really we are in an era of brain circulation. Prabhu argues that the Surprising Secret of Indias Success Could Be its Brain Drain. He studied 116 Indian companies, and found:Leaders who had studied and worked abroad had a competitive advantage. This international edge helped them expand rapidly in developed markets, despite a lack of experience peddling their products and services in the West.The data suggests that pharmaceutical company Ranbaxy Laboratories, software and outsourcing company Infosys, refining company Reliance Industries, the Mahindra Group and Indias largest conglomerate the Tata group, all benefited from having executives who had spent time studying or working overseas. These companies were able to survive increased competition in their home market and then thrive even in the most-competitive developed markets because their chiefs had taken a crash course in global capitalism by honing their skills in the United States and elsewhere." (For more: see the Surprising Secret of Indias Success Could Be its Brain Drain)As the new generation graduating from IITs and IIMs, continue to innovate and work in India, we will see more and more technology and companies created in India. It's already beginning to happen. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) also has had a record of launching highly successful and technologically advanced missions. Yet, it will not be easy, and the political task is enormous. Comparing India to Germany, Japan, and the United States is difficult. Germany has a population of around 80 Million, Japan around 130 Million, the US around 318 Million. And India has 1.25 Billion. China has a larger population than India, and Singapore is a newer state. However, both of these countries are ruled by largely authoritarian governments. India is not only highly populated, there is tremendous diversity in India. Indians speak different languages, come from different castes, and have different religions. And the country is a democracy. If economic and political reform succeeds, and India is able to create an inclusive and pro-business environment, we will see India truly tap its technological and entrepreneurial potential.