 Getting what you want is difficult. And at times, it seems random. Have you ever noticed that the most successful people you know aren't always the smartest? They aren't always the ones you expected to succeed.From my experience, the people who get what they want are the most determined, and follow a similar pattern. To lay your hands on your dream:1. Know what you wantNot knowing exactly what you want, is what makes life complicated. The paradox of choice. To gain focus, you need to select a clear and tangible goal because the more you dream about, the more you lack focus. The first step in achieving your dreams, is to turn them into concrete and reachable goals. If you don't know where want to go, you probably won't get there! Be specific. Don't just say, "I want to be the boss." First you need to clearly define what being the boss means to you, and then set out a plan. Write down and visualize realistic benchmarks.2. Know what you don't wantThink of nothing else. Cut out all time and energy spent on anything that doesn't further your dreams. Don't get distracted by things that don't matter. Stay away from drama, toxic people, and time zappers. Guard your energy and spirit with everything you have. Surround yourself by positive people who believe in you and what you want to achieve. It is commonly said that you become most like the people you hang around and the the people in your direct environment. Chose your friends, colleagues, and partners based on their ability to lift you up. If someone drags you down, or drains your energy, cut them out. 3. Ask for it Once you've determined exactly what you want, simply ask for it. Don't be afraid to speak up and be direct. It's surprising how much you can get buy just asking. Give people a convincing reason to help you. People respond to passion and conviction. When people ask how you are doing, and if they can help, be prepared with a positive and clear answer. Your network and resources will be more supportive, when you are able to clearly articulate how they can help you. And when people help you, be grateful for their support. Help others, and support their dreams. Celebrate the success you see around you. It is contagious. Don't be bitter or jealous. Make people feel good when they are around you, and when they help you. 4. It's never too lateReduce your goal to small manageable steps and reward yourself. Don't try to do everything all at once. Be methodical and have a strategic plan. Success is a marathon, not a sprint. I really like Bill Gate's observation here: Most people overestimate what they can do in 1 year and underestimate what they can do in 10 years.History is filled with successful people who reached their dreams later in life. Success and dream achievement have no age limit or expire-by-date. So whatever your dream, start now. Don't procrastinate or allow yourself to daydream about what you can achieve in the future. Start moving, and when you get tired, just think: Ruth Rothfarb ran the Boston Marathon -- A Race For The Ages -- at 86. 5. Don't give upYou need brutal determination. You cannot quit. You cannot surrender. Most people give up, when they are close to achieving their goal. No matter what the odds, no matter what happens, simply keep going.After all, as Baby Ruth reminds us: You just cant beat the person who wont give up. The winner is always the one who is left standing.