 "Give Me Liberty or Give Me Death." Patrick Henry at the Virginia Convention in 1775(Picture Source: Patrick Henry Center For Individual Liberty)Patrick Henry (1736  1799) served as the first and sixth Governor of Virginia and was a Founding Father of the United States. Henry was a rousing orator and popular political figure during the Revolutionary Period. His memorable one-liner is one of the defining credos of the American Revolutionary War. Henry's words were first proclaimed at the Virginia convention, and helped push the delegates, including Thomas Jefferson and George Washington, to battle. "Give Me Liberty or Give Me Death" served as a popular battle cry for the American Patriots, Continental Army and Minutemen."A House Divided Against Itself Cannot Stand." Abraham Lincoln at the Illinois Capitol, 1858.(Source: Abraham Lincoln Giving A Speech Picture Gallery)Abraham Lincoln (1809 1865) was the 16th President of the United States. Lincoln declared this memorable one-liner when he was accepting the Illinois Republican Party's nomination for US senator. This simple statement clearly articulated Lincolns views on keeping the Union together and launched his political identity. While Lincoln was defeated in this Senate race by the incumbent,Stephen A. Douglas, he later went on to become President. Lincoln led the country through the Civil War, and kept the Union together. Lincoln's radical words helped to solidify him as a statesman and man able to keep the country together: A house divided against itself cannot stand. I believe this government cannot endure, permanently, half slave and half free. I do not expect the Union to be dissolved  I do not expect the house to fall  but I do expect it will cease to be divided. It will become all one thing or all the other. We Have Nothing to Fear, But Fear Itself. Franklin D. Roosevelt, the United States Capitol,1933.(Picture Source:  Franklin D. Roosevelt Pictures)Franklin D. Roosevelt (1882 1945) was the 32nd President of the United States. FDR proclaimed this memorable, and inspiration, line when he addressed the nation at his first inaugural address. FDR became President during the countrys worst financial crisis, and the country was paralyzed and crippled by fear. FDR came into the White House, and immediately took action to turn the country around. FDR's "First 100 Days" and New Deal, brought tremendous change and helped the country to move forward. His memorable one-liner gave the country the confidence to take bold steps, and brought Americas out of their state of fear and into one of action and progress. I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal." Martin Luther King, Jr, steps of the Lincoln Memorial, 1963. (Source: Martin Luther King and the March on Washington, BBC Two, review)Martin Luther King, Jr. (1929 1968), was an political activist, and leader in the American Civil Rights Movement. Kings March on Washington speech was the defining moment of the American Civil Rights Movement, and the one line I have a Dream helped to change history. Historian Jon Meacham writes that, "With a single phrase, Martin Luther King Jr. joined Jefferson and Lincoln in the ranks of men who've shaped modern America."Kings speech during the March on Washington put pressure on the Kennedy administration and Congress to advance civil rights legislation and brought racial inequality to the forefront of American politics. Most notably and impressively King brought the fight to the people and made the government act through his words, and not through violence.