 The 2016 election is still over a year away, but Hilary Clinton is going to win it. The only way she loses at this point is if something catastrophic goes wrong for her, most likely with her health. And she's looking pretty healthy. There are no more skeletons to be found in her closet-- only glorious red, white, and blue pantsuits. American politics is like "A Game of Thrones" and the strongest house will sit atop the Iron Thrown. It is true that Hilary Clinton is not very well liked and many of the american people don't trust her. But House Clinton is too fierce. They are battle trained, prepared, and their troops are in it to win it. At all costs. They have the money, experience, and political strength to defeat everyone else in the race right now. Clinton knows that "Winter is Coming" and like House Stark, is incredibly prepared. While I am excited for the first woman president, her gender has very little to do with her chances in 2016. She is just the best candidate in this race. The competition is simply too far behind. The Democratic nomination is hers. Joe Biden recently announced that it was too late for him to get in, likely because he knew that he had little chance of securing the nomination. Biden is very well liked by the President, the beltway, and the populace, but Clinton is just too far ahead. House Clinton has secured the funding, talent, and support. Biden, and his advisors, knew the fight would be ugly, bruising, and he wouldn't win it. Biden, like House Tully has the motto of Family, Duty, Honor and family came first. Bernie Sanders is showing some strength and doing a lot better than expected. However, he is no Barack Obama. He'll likely win a few early states, but he is not a plausible alternative to Clinton for the Democratic nomination. Sanders, like House Arryn, is the principled house-- seated in a small castle, which is located far, far away at the top of a remote mountain. The Republican nomination is another story all together. Jeb Bush is arguably still the Republican front runner, and House Bush -- Like House Lannister, is formidable. "They always pay their debts." Jeb, like Tommen, has money, advisors, and he seems like a decent guy. However, he doesn't have the charisma, or the necessary fire in his belly. Tyrion Lannister, says it best: He was a sweet boy, not like his brother. Bush has more money than anyone else, but he's spending it just as quickly, and he's not gaining ground. Donald Trump is making a play, and he appears strong, but ultimately has no plan to govern and will be defeated by the stronger Houses. Like House Baratheon's credo: "Ours Is The Fury" Trump is able to rouse passion, but the Fury needs to be tempered to win. Ben Carson, from House Martel, is too far from Westeros to seriously take on the stronger Houses. He has separated siamese twins, "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken." But it's nearly impossible for someone without any elected political experience to actually win the presidency of the United States in 2016. Carly Florina, has the "Fire and Blood" of the Targareons. She, like the Mother of Dragons, is an excellent marketer, public speaker, and debater. On the grand stage, she shines. And brightly. Yet, she too, is an inexperienced leader and the results of her actions fail to live up to her grand and bold promises. Marco Rubio, from the House Tyrell is, "Growing Strong" and has a real shot of securing the Republican nomination. He strikes a pragmatic balance, and like House Tyrell, is politically savvy in a strategic and understated way. By taking the slow and steady course, and raising under the radar, he very well may be the next to face, and fall, to House Clinton in 2016.