 People spend more time at work with their colleagues, than they do at home with their family, friends, or anyone else. So it makes sense that fit and getting along with the team would be part of the interview process. From my experience interviewing people, many candidates dont prep for this question.A few tips to improve your chances of connecting with the team.1. Research the CulturePeople generally feel more comfortable with people like them. So you need to do your research and find out what you have in common with the company culture and people youd be working with. Go to Glassdoor, and other sites to check out everything that has been said about the company culture. If all of the posts mention that the company is crazy demanding and that long hours are a must, you want to highlight that you are a hard worker and are singularly focused on work at this stage in your career. If the posts say that the company places importance on work-life balance, highlight your hobbies, family, and how much you enjoy balance in your life, etc.Tailor your attitude, questions, and responses to the culture at this specific company. For instance, when I was interviewing people for a highly competitive Sales and Trading job, we were looking for candidates who were highly money motivated. When I asked a candidate his goal in life, he responded, I want to sit in a hot tub full of money. Lots and lots of bubbles, and more money. For this particular job, this answer was ok. I imagine it would be a turn off to a non-profit.2. Research the PeopleGo to LinkedIn, Facebook and Google to research all the people you will be interviewing with, and the CEO and high level execs. Check out their profiles and see if they all have anything in common. Did the all go to the same college, or no college at all? Everyone have kids or look to be single? Do they look to be into any sports? Dont let on that youve done all this sleuthing, it could be creepy. For instance, dont say, Oh I saw on Facebook that your cousin has a 2 year old son, so do I. However, I did interview with a candidate who said, I saw on LinkedIn that you moved from Banking to Tech. Why did you make the switch? That was ok. I felt that they had done their research, and they appeared thoughtful.Again, you want to demonstrate that you fit in. So look for things you have in common, and then casually mention them. Dont go overboard. Also, dont lie and say you are interested in things that they are, just because you see it all over Twitter. You need to be genuine. 3. Map out your InterestsI once disagreed with my boss and lobbied the CEO to hire a candidate who was very obviously not a culture fit, because I thought he was interesting. He came into the interview with a lot of good ideas and I wanted to work with him. Google execs often asked candidates to, teach me something I don't know in the next five minutes." I think that is a good question and something to keep in mind. Obviously, dont be a know it all or start lecturing your prospective co-workers. However, if you are knowledgeable about something, and can show passion and interest in a topic, do it. Be prepared to talk about yourself and your interests. Have answers ready to common questions like: what books or online publications you read, what TV shows or movies you watch, your hobbies, what you like to do on the weekends, etc. You dont want to draw a blank, or appear to have no interests, if they ask. Read up on current events, and have things to say to fill the empty space. Good topics include sports, popular TV shows like Game of Thrones, food, restaurants, and traveling. However, remember that this is still an interview, and you are trying to get a job. Steer clear of controversial topics. If asked your stance on something highly controversial, say it's a complicated topic and change the subject. Now is not the time to change your co-workers mind on gun control or vaccinating their children. 4. Be FriendlySmile, look people in the eye, and watch your body language. Stay positive and upbeat. People want to be surrounded by people who make them feel good. Also be prepared to ask your prospective colleagues a few questions about what they enjoy. Ask them about their hobbies, and what excites them. Keep the conversation flowing. Listen and ask follow up questions. Focus on subjects that all the team members seem interested in. Finally, have nice things ready to say about your current company. Think about a few positive and interesting stories about your team and be prepared to show how well you will fit into the new group.