 Whether or not a good salesperson will make a good sales manager has a lot to do with the culture they are in, and their ability to adapt and change. Good salespeople are competitive. Sadly, often even more competitive with members of their own team, than they are with external competitors. Many good salespeople get good by focusing only on their numbers at the expense of everything, and everyone, else. When they get promoted to management, many salespeople with this mentality, will find it difficult to change their way of thinking.Typically in sales, each person is only responsible for their own quota. Internal company performance is individual and seemingly clear-cut: leader-boards make it easy to see who is on top and who is on bottom. Commissions and promotions are also often based on how someone performs vs. how the rest of the team does.In companies without good sales leadership, poor performers actually help the best salespeople. Great sales numbers look even better when others aren't performing. Salespeople in this winner take all culture, will not prioritize or learn how to help others, an integral skill for sales management. Highlighting that "no deal is won or lost alone," Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff writes about great sales management in his book about building Salesforce, Behind the Cloud. Benioff shares ways to change this type of sales mentality. Salesforces sales executive, David Rudnitsky was largely responsible for leading enterprise sales and Rudnitsky taught many valuable lessons for anyone looking to move into sales management:Every deal should be touched by multiple people. Trust the people around you and divide and conquer. "I'm less impressed with someone who closes a $2 million deal alone than I am with someone who brought all of us in and still closed the same $2 million deal," says David. At a minimum, bringing in the rest of the team helps mitigate risk, and in most cases, helps sell more.  When I was first promoted to sales manager, inexperience, and my salesman's ego made it difficult for me to share, and ultimately, give away the spotlight. I was resistant to pass on my best clients. But I had to. I no longer had time to schmooze. My team closed the deals. I stayed behind, answered calls from angry customers, tried to collect on past due payment, and kept up with everything that needed to get done. A major challenge I had to overcome as an new sales manager was to let go of the things I enjoyed doing and was good at. Things that got me promoted, like good rapport with clients, didn't really matter as much anymore. As a first time sales manager, I wasn't prepared for the amount of grunt work. I grudgingly learned that my job was to do the work that nobody else wanted to do. Upper management praised my top people for their awesome numbers and blamed me for those not making progress. Frustrated dealing with lots of crazy problems, that other people created? Welcome to management! In sales, it's also clear who closed the deal. And typically, the harder you work, the more sales you make. The more sales you close, the more successful you are. Contrary to popular opinion, good salespeople typically work much harder than everyone else. They may make it look easy, but don't be fooled-- good salespeople are extremely hard working, mentally strong, and efficient with their time.Sales management, however, is not so simple. It's not always clear who added the value. More hours don't necessarily mean more productivity. Running a sales team isn't just about sales and achieving sales numbers. There is a lot more to sales management than meeting quota. Being a good sales manager is also about recruiting, training and promoting people-- skills not necessarily inherent to a good salesperson. For example, when I was a new manager, and someone on my team began giving me suggestions on what I could do differently, initially I went back to my more traditional sales mentality and worried that we were still in competition. I was annoyed. He wasn't hitting his sales targets and was instead spending time giving me ideas on how to do my job. I was resistant and wasted a lot of time and energy wanting him to just "be quiet and do his job." He wasn't the best salesperson but he had the best ideas on how to improve the team's overall strategy. He hated cold calling, and being on the phone, a necessary skill for a salesperson, but not a sales manager. I quickly realized that my numbers would improve if we worked together. His individual sales numbers still sucked, but his ideas helped to improve the team's performance. I could have easily fired him because his numbers were low, but instead I informally treated him as my sales manager and soon enough, his promotion was made formal. To my surprise, I also got another promotion. Not something that happens in traditional sales, when someone else performs well. Sales is often a zero sum game, where each sales person tries to get as much of the pie for themselves as possible, whereas sales management is about expanding the pie.