 Irvin Yalom, a Stanford professor, gave an interesting and unexpected piece of advice thats helped me to develop better self-discipline. And while simple to say, understand and remember, it's difficult to actually do, like many words to live by.Strike while the iron is cold.Don't quit your job, make large financial decisions, or engage in nasty feuds when emotions are running hot. If you have the urge to strike, sleep on it, hit the gym, or take a long walk.I've learned the hard way that it's surprisingly easy to lose control and self-discipline when I'm tired, pissed off, or otherwise heated. One example is if you're hot on an e-bay item. When you get outbid, it feels like someone has taken something from you. A few times Ive lost control, and ended up overbidding, heating up the market and ended up jacking the price. To pay the lowest price, you'll need self-discipline. Keep calm and cool and patiently wait until the end to place a decisive bid.In 2009, at the absolute bottom of the market, I lost all self-discipline and sold all my carefully saved Johnson & Johnson stock at $50 because I got scared and angry. Ironically, I invested in the stock in the first place after a lot of research and specifically because I was planning to hold. But I sold in a moment of panic (along with a lot of other people). It was a huge mistake. Today JNJ is sitting over $100. Taking feelings, ego, and emotion out of behavior and decisions is not easy. When the mind begins racing, the heart pounding, and the blood pressure skyrocketing, it's a good idea to take notice and pause. Once the arrows are out of the bow, you cant take them back. Similarly, once youve said something intended to hurt somebody, you cannot take your words back. Yet, it's funny how hard it can be sometimes to see that you are about to act impulsively. My husband notices that I start to freak out about the house being a mess, and begin yelling at him about being totally disorganized when I get stressed. Knowing this, Ive started to develop self-discipline when I need it the most. When I feel myself spinning out of control, I take a walk, to clear my mind before saying or doing something rash. By waiting to strike, you usually realize you don't have to. And if you do, you can act in a deliberate fashion. Any hot emotions have simmered into a more meaningful cool determination. Physiological evidence also indicates that access to the rational part of our brain is essentially cut off when we're emotionally heated. We instinctively begin our "fight-or-flight response." Knowing this, I've tried to err towards temporary flight. Instead of immediately fighting back, or leaving, it's best to be disciplined and strike while the iron is cold.