 No, it's not true that Indian software engineers are considered bad hires in the US. In fact, it's quite the opposite. Indians dominate engineering at American tech companies. And they are not just the worker grunts. Indian CEOs now run Microsoft and Google.However, being from India may affect your job prospects, but not because of discrimination -- but because of the immigration process. Complicated visa issues may impact what jobs you can and will take. For your best chances at career prospects in the US:Get that MS in engineering. It helps to have that degree. Few Americans do. Generally Americans gravitate towards MBAs, law degrees, and medicine. This is changing, but still there are a lot of opportunities open to Indians with top engineering degrees.Start the process to get a green card as soon as possible. Once you have a green card you can take more risks, and your career prospects won't be limited. Start your career at a top company with great name recognition, the bigger and more prestigious, the better. Once you have the credibility on your resume, and your green card, begin to move around. Take a chance and do something bold and unexpected. Focus on your skills, not on perceived discrimination. Your engineering capabilities have nothing to do with your skin color. Good companies and top managers just want the job done, and will give it to the best candidate. It never hurts to be the best-- work to be better than your American and Indian peers.  I currently work in an engineering group at a large Silicon Valley tech company. The Director, VP, and CTO of my group are all Indians. There are more Indians -- all mostly software engineers -- than Americans on my floor. Interview at almost any IT department of almost any major tech firm in Silicon Valley, and you will likely interview with at least one Indian.People tend to hire candidates with backgrounds similar to their own, and with backgrounds similar to those succeeding at the company. Most hiring decisions are made quickly and the Availability heuristic plays a factor. So in that respect, being Indian may help rather than hurt you. Most Americans are not discriminatory. I've been involved with lots of hiring decisions and heard many behind the scenes conversations. I've never once heard anyone directly say an Indian, or anyone of any race, was a bad hire because of their skin color. Now of course, there will always be some people who are ignorant. You may occasionally hear these rude comments, but I don't believe they are the norm, and I wouldn't focus on them. Certainly women, and other minorities vying for engineering jobs will hear similarly crappy comments. Yet, of all groups in software engineering, I think discrimination against Indian engineers is probably the least common, especially in tech and in Silicon Valley.Now for the harder part that actually may impact your job prospects: navigating the immigration process. Visa issues can prohibit opportunity and limit job prospects. The US distributes visas by lottery, and the number of H-1B is capped by Congress. The process is complicated and limiting. Once you graduate from your MS program, and are looking for a job, you will need your employer to sponsor your H-1B visa. If they want to hire you, it won't typically be a problem. Especially in the Bay Area. However, the company does have to pay additional money (approx $2-5K) and generally make the case that you have specialized skills that an American doesn't. If you are on H-1B visa and want to move to another job, again you will need the new company to transfer your visa. Not every company will do it, and this could limit your prospects. Smaller companies and new start-ups aren't always as familiar and comfortable with the process, and may not sponsor you. Many Indians are therefore more conservative with their jobs and careers. They gravitate towards, and stay longer, at safer jobs, because they can't afford to take as much risk. If an Indian gets laid off, or the company they work for goes bust, they will need to quickly find another employment sponsor. If they can't, they have to go back to India. Americans can take a risky job, without worrying about deportation. Similarly companies that have just gone through big lay-offs often can't or won't sponsor H-1b visas during that time. So companies like these, going through transition and tough times-- which ironically are often very good for career growth and opportunity-- can be off limits for those on work visas. Once you get your H-1B visa, you will need to ask your employer to sponsor your green card (GC). Good companies will do this for you. However, once the GC process starts, it takes some time, and is complicated, with many steps. Yo have no control over how quickly it will get done. And switching companies while you are in the process of getting your GC can be scary, so many Indian engineers generally stay with the same company until they get the GC-- which can take up to 7-8 years. Once you fianlly have your GC, then you are a free bird and can move around. There won't really be any issues with your job prospects or types of companies ready to hire you. Americans generally consider Indians to be great engineers because Indian technical schools are believed to be just as good, or better, than those in the US. Indians particularly dominate in engineering. However, you will need to prove your worth, just like everyone else. Ultimately, your skills and some luck, rather than your skin color, will be the determining factors of your job prospects.