 There is no consensus of who the "richest man in the world is," so yes, they could keep the value of their wealth a secret. The 2015 Forbes List values, individuals assetsincluding stakes in public and private companies, real estate, yachts, art and cash, and places Bill Gates back in the top spot.(Source: The World's Billionaires)For these billionaires, it would be difficult for them to keep their wealth a secret. People like Bill Gates, Carlos Slim, and Warren Buffet, make their money through public companies, and you can quickly check their net worth by the minute.However, not all rich people are as easy to value.One of the richest men I ever met kept his wealth a secret. He is not the richest man in the world, but he has billions, and someone like him may well be in the top spot. I couldn't find this guy on Google, and on paper he barely exists. His wealth, properties, and investments are held in multiple layers of shell companies, trusts, offshore accounts, foundations, and holding companies, which were not linked to him directly.Political and royal figures also have ways of hiding their money, and can largely keep the value of their wealth a secret. For instance, Vladimir Putin's wealth is a subject of hot contention. Many people believe Vladimir Putins Net Worth In 2015 is Higher Than Bill Gates? Putins salary is nine million rubles, or $145,000, per year, but Putin doesn't seem to even care.Frankly, I dont even know my own salary  they just give it to me, and I put it away in my account. Putin does not even show up on the Forbes List. When asked about his net worth, Forbes told newsweek: Vladimir Putin is not on the list because we have not been able to verify his ownership of assets worth $1 billion or more.Quantifying the wealth of dictators and royals is difficult. For instance, the wealth of Queen Elizabeth II is also largely a secret. Officially Forbes values her wealth at $500 million. However, just one of her private residences -- Buckingham Palace -- is estimated to be worth $5 billion. Wealth of this magnitude is also highly illiquid and very difficult to sell. So how much wealth does Vladimir Putin and the Queen of England really have? If not a secret, it's definitely not so simple.