 No, it's not true that Indian software engineers are considered bad hires in the US. In fact, it's quite the opposite. Indians dominate engineering at American tech companies. And they are not just the worker grunts. Indian CEOs now run Microsoft and Google.However, being from India may affect your job prospects, but not because of discrimination -- but because of the immigration process. Complicated visa issues may impact what jobs you can and will take. For your best chances at career prospects in the US:Get that MS in engineering. It helps to have that degree. Few Americans do. Generally Americans gravitate towards MBAs, law degrees, and medicine. This is changing, but still there are a lot of opportunities open to Indians with top engineering degrees.Start the process to get a green card as soon as possible. Once you have a green card you can take more risks, and your career prospects won't be limited. Start your career at a top company with great name recognition, the bigger and more prestigious, the better. Once you have the credibility on your resume, and your green card, begin to move around. Take a chance and do something bold and unexpected. Focus on your skills, not on perceived discrimination. Your engineering capabilities have nothing to do with your skin color. Good companies and top managers just want the job done, and will give it to the best candidate. It never hurts to be the best-- work to be better than your American and Indian peers.  I currently work in an engineering group at a large Silicon Valley tech company. The Director, VP, and CTO of my group are all Indians. There are more Indians -- all mostly software engineers -- than Americans on my floor. Interview at almost any IT department of almost any major tech firm in Silicon Valley, and you will likely interview with at least one Indian.People tend to hire candidates with backgrounds similar to their own, and with backgrounds similar to those succeeding at the company. Most hiring decisions are made quickly and the Availability heuristic plays a factor. So in that respect, being Indian may help rather than hurt you. Most Americans are not discriminatory. I've been involved with lots of hiring decisions and heard many behind the scenes conversations. I've never once heard anyone directly say an Indian, or anyone of any race, was a bad hire because of their skin color. Now of course, there will always be some people who are ignorant. You may occasionally hear these rude comments, but I don't believe they are the norm, and I wouldn't focus on them. Certainly women, and other minorities vying for engineering jobs will hear similarly crappy comments. Yet, of all groups in software engineering, I think discrimination against Indian engineers is probably the least common,