 Kim Kardashian is a marketing genius. And what she markets is herself. She appears to be baring all, but her image is obsessively edited and scripted. Kardashian is a perfectionist, and she is a workaholic obsessed with fame and money. She is totally obsessive and OCD regarding her carefully crafted image. She has famous connections. Robert Kardashian, her father, was a big-shot LA lawyer in the OJ Simpson case. She attended pre-school with Paris Hilton. Her 14th birthday party was held at Michael Jackson's Neverland Ranch. Many other starlets have connections, but few have 32 million Twitter followers (more than Oprah, CNN, Bill Gates, or LaBron James). She leveraged her connections to put herself in the spotlight at the correct time. Nick Lachey claims Kim Kardashian alerted paparazzi to their movie date in 2006 in bid to get famous.Sex sells. Kim Kardashian's rise to fame began in 2007 with a "leaked" sex tape starring our girl and rapper Ray J (brother of pop star, Brandy, and first cousin of rapper Snoop Dogg). Again, many starlets have leaked sex tapes, but few have gone on to become household names. Even fewer are worth $100M. Kardashian epitomizes the modern day Amerikan dream. She is sexy (to some). She is photogenic -- with the help of massive make-up, hair styling, photo-shop, and expensive wardrobe. And she has absolutely no shame exploiting ALL of it. Kardashian is now married, and a mother, and has continued to be sexually outrageous. It works. She recently posed naked in Paper's 2014 winter issue. Paper's website received 15.9 million views in one day, compared with 25,000 views on an average day.Her husband, rapper Kanye West posts highly sexual photos of her on Instagram. He also raps about her sex tape, bragging about their lifestyle: "Eat breakfast at Gucci. My girl a superstar all from a home movie."She recently published a book, "Selfish," filled with selfies, mostly in bathing suits.People are attracted to the glamour. Kim posts pictures of herself on private planes, on fancy vacations, at the MetBall, in gorgeous beaches (in a scantily clad bathing suit of course), and at exclusive events. Viewers feel like they get a taste of what it is like to be a celebrity, and they click on her photos to live vicariously through her. Again, all of these images are carefully crafted, and even when she shows a picture of herself as she is just waking up, she has full hair and make-up.Kardashian is everywhere and heavily diversified. She never went to college (she dropped out of High School), but she is a highly successful multi-faced entrepreneur. Kardashian stars in a popular reality TV show, has published books, graced the cover of Vogue, launched a popular app, has a clothing line, a perfume, and much more.The choose-your-own-adventure-style Kim Kardashian app where fans go on photo shoots, dates, and hang out with Hollywood stars, "in order to climb the ranks and become an A-list celebrity,"  has 28 million downloads and 11 billion minutes of play since it launched last summer. It is also on track to rake in over $200 million. It promises fame and fortune the Kim Kardashian way: users must pay constant attention to their wardrobe, social standing, romantic life, media presence, and accumulation of wealth. The goal is to earn virtual cash, and special Kardashian branded K stars, in the hopes of becoming famous. Join KIM KARDASHIAN on a red carpet adventure in Kim Kardashian: Hollywood! Create your own aspiring celebrity and rise to fame and fortune! 