 No, being pregnant doesn't mean that you will automatically be fat. However, for the first few weeks after delivery you might continue to look crazy bloated -- I certainly did.I have heard urban legends of people leaving the hospital in their pre-pregnancy skinny jeans. I'm not sure I believe them. Generally, though, I've been pretty surprised by how quickly the body bounces back. Most pregnant women gain between 25-40 pounds. And right after birth, lose about a third of it:7 -8 lbs - baby1-2 lbs - placenta3-4 lbs - blood and amniotic fluidHowever, due to retained water, the weight loss may not be obvious for over a week. And by that point you're well into the sleep deprivation era of caring for a newborn that you don't care about fitting into anything other than yoga pants. The more weight you gain while pregnant, the more likely you'll keep on pounds after delivery. However, I do have a super fit friend who gained 80 lbs during pregnancy and lost all of it within a year. She credits weight lifting and lots of gym time. So, certainly how much and how you exercise, after giving birth is a big factor. If your goal is to keep the weight down after pregnancy, get into good shape before getting pregnant. Start from a healthy place. Then continue to eat well, with some well-deserved splurges. Exercise through your pregnancy. Drink lots of water. Eat fruits, veggies, and whole foods. Stay away from too much salt, sugar, and white flour. Something that really surprised me: I came home from the hospital looking worse, than I did going in. I had to be induced, and the IV fluids made me blow up. My feet and legs were more swollen after giving birth, than they were in the middle of a heat wave at 42 weeks pregnant. I got an MRI to make sure that I didn't have a blood clot. Thankfully it was temporary, but I wasn't prepared for it. Even after the swelling goes down, a few of my friends found that they no longer fit into their old shoes. This is because ligaments throughout the body can be loosened during pregnancy, causing feet to spread. Postpartum is brutal. The six weeks after giving birth are rough. But not because of the excess weight. Between putting baby down, picking baby up, and carrying around 8 lbs all day, you burn a lot of calories. Giving birth is like running a marathon. The body is exhausted and needs fuel. After delivery, I was starving and couldn't get the calories fast enough. Between that, and the breast-feeding, by the end of week 2, my swelling had gone down and I had lost about 20 lbs since giving birth. And I wasn't eating all that healthy. I craved, and devoured, donuts. Another good tip: get a postpartum support wrap. My sister-in-law who got back to her super svelte pre-baby weight, recommended wearing one. I got one and put it on when I left the hospital. It was uncomfortable, but worth it. Because your bones are flexible after giving birth, wrapping helps to push everything back into place. Belly Wraps should be worn for 4-6 weeks after delivery to reap maximum benefits.Looking at my belly now, it's still a little flabbier than it was before giving birth. Not sure I'll ever lose the extra skin, but I fit into my pre-pregancy clothes. It's hard to believe that less than 2 years ago, my belly was so big that I could barely squeeze into restaurant booths. 