 I've spent the majority of my career negotiating, and training and managing negotiators. I've been involved with thousands of small, medium, and large negotiations.I've seen a few different types of people be effective. Some are the brash, loud and obnoxious types -- like Donald Trump. Yet, others are the opposite and totally quiet, shy, and respectful. Yet, all top negotiators share a few important characteristics. They are able to: Focus on the outcome Ask the right questionsListen and understand motivationExecute and appear confident and credible Handle failure and riskBe resilient and not give upA lot of people dislike negotiation because they view it as adversarial. Which sometimes it is. However, top negotiators are not trying to win an argument. Their goal is not to prove a point. Their goal is to get what they want. Top negotiators are able to focus on the outcome. They know what they want, and they go into a negotiation prepared to get it. Bad negotiators are ill prepared, and often don't even know what they want. If you don't know what you want, you aren't going to get it! And just as important as knowing exactly what you want, is understanding what the other side wants. Top negotiators know how to ask the right questions. Typically a negotiation boils down to a few main points and top negotiators understand the most important factors. They listen very carefully, and are able to figure out what matters to the other person. A lot of people have mentioned that top negotiators are good listeners, and certainly that is part of it. However, asking the right questions, is just as important. Listening to understand what the other side needs is vital. It's important to understand what the other side wants, not just what they say they want. I've also found listening for when a story changes to be key.Top negotiators do their research. And they are often flexible -- seeing many ways to "win" in a situation. Whether this is their Best alternative to a negotiated agreement (BATNA) or just multiple ways to do a deal. They typically aren't overly rigid or too focused on changing somebodys mind. That is hard and exhausting. And it rarely works. Great negotiators focus on how they can get what they want and how they can give other people what they want.Also, to be a top negotiator you need to be authentic and believable. The other side needs to feel confident that you are credible and you can execute. Again, I've seen a lot of different styles succeed. Some people, like Trump, appear larger than life and love to brag about how good they are. Yet, I've also seen people negotiate multi- million dollar deals by telling the other side how terrible they are at negotiating. Many top negotiators have different negotiating styles - but they all are confident and credible. It's hard to be a great negotiator if the other side doesn't trust you can deliver. It's also impossible to be a great negotiator without hearing no, and putting yourself out there. You are going to get rejected. So, top negotiators are comfortable with risk and ok handling rejection. Top negotiators are persistent, and don't quit when it gets tough or when they are told "no." The more adversarial and draining the negotiation, the more likely the party with more stamina will win. Zero-sum negotiation is often a game of chicken. And better negotiators dont cave, or quit. Perseverance pays off. For most people, at a certain point, the goal is just to come to a conclusion and move on. But, for the most effective negotiators, the goal is always to get the best deal possible given all the circumstances. Impatient take it or leave it negotiating rarely achieves the optimal outcome.Finally, most negotiations involve a degree of gamesmanship and top negotiators have honed pattern recognition and are comfortable with negotiation strategies. For more on negotiation tips, see Mira Zaslove's answer to What should everyone know about negotiation?