 Whether or not a good salesperson will make a good sales manager has a lot to do with the culture they are in, and their ability to adapt and change. Good salespeople are competitive. Sadly, often even more competitive with members of their own team, than they are with external competitors. Many good salespeople get good by focusing only on their numbers at the expense of everything, and everyone, else. When they get promoted to management, many salespeople with this mentality, will find it difficult to change their way of thinking.Typically in sales, each person is only responsible for their own quota. Internal company performance is individual and seemingly clear-cut: leader-boards make it easy to see who is on top and who is on bottom. Commissions and promotions are also often based on how someone performs vs. how the rest of the team does.In companies without good sales leadership, poor performers actually help the best salespeople. Great sales numbers look even better when others aren't performing. Salespeople in this winner take all culture, will not prioritize or learn how to help others, an integral skill for sales management. Highlighting that "no deal is won or lost alone," Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff writes about great sales management in his book about building Salesforce, Behind the Cloud. Benioff shares ways to change this type of sales mentality. Salesforces sales executive, David Rudnitsky was largely responsible for leading enterprise sales and Rudnitsky taught many valuable lessons for anyone looking to move into sales management:Every deal should be touched by multiple people. Trust the people around you and divide and conquer. "I'm less impressed with someone who closes a $2 million deal alone than I am with someone who brought all of us in and still closed the same $2 million deal," says David. At a minimum, bringing in the rest of the team helps mitigate risk, and in most cases, helps sell more.  When I was first promoted to sales manager, inexperience, and my salesman's ego made it difficult for me to share, and ultimately, give away the spotlight. I was resistant to pass on my best clients. But I had to. I no longer had time to schmooze. My team closed the deals. I stayed behind, answered calls from angry customers, tried to collect on past due payment, and kept up with everything that needed to get done. A major challenge I had to overcome as an new sales manager was to let go of the things I enjoyed doing and was good at. Things that got me promoted, like good rapport