 Depends on what your strengths and weaknesses are, how major they are, who they impact, and how easy they are to improve.Generally, I would say it is best to focus on your strengths. I spent many years as a manager, and would much rather my team focus on improving what they are already good at, than working on things they aren't. And I'm going to tell you a dirty secret about the performance review: don't focus on becoming the well rounded employee. When I managed teams, my best performers were often my worst performers in certain areas.For instance, on my Sales and Trading team, one of my guys who always hit quota, was continually late, missed a lot of work, and was often MIA during the day. It didn't bother me too much, because he was helping me hit my numbers. However, during performance review time I was required to fill out the "biggest weaknesses & areas for improvement" section. Would I trade him coming to work every day on time, with him missing quota? Nope. I wanted him to be aware of it, and work on it when he could--- but not at the expense of hurting his strengths. When receiving feedback, and during that dreaded performance review, ask what you do best, and how you can more utilize and improve that strength. Craft your career, and chose your jobs and positions, according to your strengths. If your current job involves areas that require your weaknesses, look at outsourcing them and partner with people who complement your skills. It's easy to get caught up on weakness. Most of us don't like criticism. It's temping to try to be good at everything. However, it is counterproductive. Better for your career to be bad at something, admit it, and move on to becoming the best at what you are already good at.However, there are a few times when it is best to focus on those weaknesses:1. If your biggest weakness is something relevant towards you career and improving it will make a meaningful impact, then you might be wise to improve it. For instance, if you are a horrible public speaker and absolutely hate talking in front of large crowds, and your goal is to become CEO, then I would suggest checking out: What caused Mark Zuckerbergs improvement in public speaking?However, if you are a rockstar programmer and only have to do public speaking at your brother's wedding, then I would stick to your strengths. A skill like public speaking is difficult to improve and will take a major effort, and lots of practice. It will not happen overnight, and if you don't really need it, then the effort required is likely not worth it. You are better off working to become the best programmer in your field. 2. If your weakness is majorly negatively impacting other people or your team, fix it. For instance, if you are constantly overly optimistic and give your teammates unrealistic timelines, I would suggest improving. I once worked with a talented, but overly optimistic engineering manager. They gave deadlines that were "best case scenario" and never panned out. Product was constantly late, and ship dates were never met. This hurt everyone. The investors were continually disappointed, and it impacted morale.It was really frustrating for everyone because no matter how impressive the final product, the team was always scrambling and "delivering late" in the eyes of the investors. 3. If your weakness is hurting other people, work on it.  If you lose your temper and go off the rails on your co-workers, work on it. If people continually say your biggest weaknesses is your toxic / hurtful/ or abusive behavior, take the feedback seriously, and work on improving. In this case, you will probably be too big of a liability to promote, and the minute your performance starts to slip, there will be a good reason to let you go. Bullying, humiliating, or yelling at your co-workers is not acceptable. Some people with hot tempers are super successful, and you might get away with it. But people like Steve Jobs, who famously lost his temper and screamed at his team, succeed in spite of behavior like this, not because of it.