 There's a prayer that goes,God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change,The courage to change the things I can,And the wisdom to know the difference.You've probably heard of it. This was authored by the theologist Reinhold Niebuhr- and even as an atheist, the message resonates deeply on a personal level.You can't change the fact that men lust after you. You can't stop your friends from feeling insecure. You can't prevent people from thinking of your breasts. I had a friend like you- lovely lady, but couldn't catch a break ever since puberty hit. A breast reduction is not necessary unless it gives you other troubles; my friend learned to roll with it. Take stock of what you can change- your demeanor, for example. Your internal balance. Yourself. Or your circle of friends. Let go of what you cannot.It probably gets better as you age, though. At 18, we're all growing, forming ourselves at a rate you seldom see in adulthood. People evolve, and that includes the men who see you "as a trophy". Developing your personal boundaries helps as well. Years ago, a former classmate made a crude sexual remark towards me. I drew myself up, addressed him by his full name, and retorted, "This is not how you talk to a lady." And then I harrumphed, farted in his general direction, and flounced out of the room. Well, the last sentence didn't happen, but he never spoke to me that way ever again.Either way, thanks for the A2A. Here are some resources I hope will help:The Importance of Personal Boundaries | Psych CentralHealthy Personal Boundaries & How to Establish ThemBoundaries : Psychological Boundaries | Healthy BoundariesSide note: as for my friend, she's working on her master's now. She grew up with a lot of unwanted attention, and with other kids making fun of her for something outside her control. The main issue was seeing through the eyes of others- being seen as a life-support system for a pair of breasts is never healthy- so it goes back to setting boundaries for oneself and others. Good luck!