 Simple. You construct a study to test it, or look at surveys, or study the evidence at hand. Mostly by studying similar groups of people, matched experiments, and court cases. And indeed, discrimination is an issue in many aspects of employment, particularly for women and non-white individuals:StatisticalStatistical evidence of discrimination is gathered by focusing on homogeneous groups. - In a well-known longitudinal study, the University of Michigan Law School (U.S.A.) showed that although the gap in earnings between men and women was very small immediately after graduation, it widened in 15 years to the point that women earned 60 percent of what men earned. Even after factoring in women's choice of working for fewer hours, and worker qualifications and other factors, such as grades in law school and detailed work history data, in 2000 men were ahead of women by 11 percent in their earnings, which might be attributed to discrimination.-Other studies on relatively homogeneous group of college graduates produced a similar unexplained gap, even for the highly educated women, such as Harvard MBAs in the United States. The researchers took college major, GPA (grade point average) and the educational institution the graduates attended into consideration. Yet, even after these factors were accounted for, there remained a 10-15 percent pay gap based on gender. [7]-Another study based on a 1993 survey of all college graduates had similar results for black and white women regarding gender differences in earnings.[8] Both black women and white women made less money compared to white, non-Hispanic men. However, the results of earnings were mixed for Hispanic and Asian women when their earnings were compared to white, non-Hispanic men. -A 2006 study looked at Harvard graduates.[9] The researchers also controlled for educational performance such as GPA, SAT scores and college major, as well as time out of work and current occupation. The results showed 30 percent of the wage gap was unexplained. Therefore, although not all of the unexplained gaps attribute to discrimination, the results of the studies signal gender discrimination, even if these women are highly educated. [6][7][8][9]-One very recent example of the employment discrimination is to be seen among female Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) in the US. Although 62% of accountants and auditors are women, they are only 9% when it comes to the CFO post. According to the research not only are they underrepresented in the profession, but they are also underpaid, 16% less on average. [10]From experiments-In order to examine racial discrimination, the Urban Institute relied on a matched pairs study.[11] All of the testers were given fabricated resumes where all characteristics but their race/ethnicity was nearly identical. The Institute found out that black men were three times more likely to be refused for a job compared to white men; while the Hispanic men were three times more likely to be discriminated.-The Fair Employment Council of Greater Washington, Inc. did a similar test for women via pairing testers by race.[12] The study found that the white female testers had higher chances of call back for interviews and job offers compared to black female testers. The percentage for interviews was by 10 percent more for the white testers. Among those interviewed, 50 percent white women were offered the job, while only 11 percent of black candidates received jobs offers. The white testers were also offered higher pay for the same job in cases where the same job was also offered to the black testers. The pay difference was 15 cents per hour more for the white candidates. Furthermore, black women were "steered" toward lower level jobs, while white women were even given some higher-level positions that were unadvertised.A matched-pairs study of homogeneous group audit experiment was done in the restaurants in Philadelphia, United States.[13] The results showed that male applicants were favored significantly. Men had higher interview callbacks or job offers. In addition, men did even better in high-pay restaurants compared to low-pay ones. There were no such cases where a man did not get the job offer but a woman did. In the high-priced restaurants, when the man got an offer, the woman was rejected 43 percent of the time. At the high-priced restaurants, women had 40 percent less chance of being interviewed and 50 percent less chance of receiving the job. Therefore, based on this study, it is correct to conclude discrimination in the same job may lead to gender wage discrimination. -Another experiment is the study of the effect of "blind" symphony orchestra auditions by Goldin and Rouse.[14] In this case, the gender of the candidate was not known by the election committee because the auditions were done behind a curtain. Thus, only the skills were considered. As a result, the number of women accepted increased after blind auditions from less than 5 percent in 1970 to 25 percent in 1996 in the top five symphony orchestras in the U.S. This study tests for discrimination directly. The finding implies there was gender discrimination against woman musicians before the adoption of the screen on identity. Darity and Mason [1998] summarize results of discriminatory behavior observed in other countries on the basis of "correspondence tests".[2] In this type of tests, the researchers design fabricated resumes that signal the ethnicity of the pseudo applicants via the names on the resumes and send these letters to the employers. However, the qualifications written in the resumes are comparable. In England, Afro-American, Indian or Pakistani names were not called back for the interviews but Anglo-Saxons were called.[15] In Australian audits, Greek or Vietnamese names had the same result; Anglo-Saxons were favored.[15] According to the experiment done in the University of Michigans study,[16] strikingly, even the skin shade and physical features of the individuals had negative effects the further the skin color and physical features were from white characteristics.From court casesThe plaintiffs were women or non-whites (St. Petersburg Times, 1997; Inter Press Service, 1996; The Chicago Tribune, 1997; The New York Times, 1993; the Christian Science Monitor, 1983; Los Angeles Times, 1996). Some examples are the following: In 1997, the allegations for the Publix Super Markets were gender biases in on the job training, promotion, tenure and layoff policies; wage discrimination; occupational segregation; hostile work environment (St. Petersburg Times, 1997, pp. 77). In 1996, allegations for Texaco were racially discriminatory hiring, promotion and salary policies (Inter Press Service, 1996; The Chicago Tribune, 1997, pp. 77). The six black workers, who were the plaintiffs, gave the taped racist comments of the white corporate officials as evidence (Inter Press Service, 1996; The Chicago Tribune, 1997). In 1983, the General Motors Corporation was sued both for gender and racial discrimination (the Christian Science Monitor, 1983). In 1993, the Shoney International was accused of racial bias in promotion, tenure, and layoff policies; wage discrimination; hostile work environment (The New York Times, 1993, pp. 77) . The victims were granted $105 million (The New York Times, 1993). In 1996, the plaintiffs of the Pitney Bowes, Inc. case were granted $11.1 million (Los Angeles Times, 1996).Employment discriminationFurthermore: there are, for example, illegal questions that can be asked- many of which feature questions on childbirth and family planning:Illegal Interview Questions and Female Applicants - FindLaw5 Job Interview Questions that Are Illegal to Ask | Monster.comAlso, there are definitely studies showing companies calling up certain people more than others, despite similar qualifications on dummy resumes, or assumptions made of certain applicants:Employers' Replies to Racial NamesUndercover job hunters reveal huge race bias in Britain's ... Discrimination in the Job Market in the United StatesU.S. Companies Often Assume Black Job Applicants Do DrugsAnd the hiring decision itself:Racial Bias in Hiring - The University of Chicago Booth ...Racial discrimination continues to play a part in hiring decisionsAnd said issues cropping up in the workplace itself, even after being hired:Racial Discrimination in the Workplace Page on nih.gov: The Sociology of Discrimination: Racial Discrimination in Employment, Housing, Credit, and Consumer Markets