 I think there are a few questions here:Can you please state if this is undergrad or graduate studies? Are you local or otherwise? Any prior work experience, grades, achievements?Which specific school are you applying to?What career course are you looking at?Are you aiming for a scholarship? We can give you a better answer if you give us more information. The faculty gets the final say, and certainly, the course is important. If you're applying to Duke-NUS, for example, you'd better have a 35 MCAT[1] score, 3.5 GPA, extensive volunteer and research experience, or at least very stellar grades. Applying to a liberal arts undergraduate study, for example, takes far less [2]. I would say getting into their top-ranked faculties is as difficult as getting into a top-tier US university. There's a reason Duke tied their name to NUS, and why it's number one on Forbes list of Asian Ivy-League colleges (Please see: Why Go To Harvard When You Can Opt For An Asian Ivy League?) [3] If you're gunning for grad school, here is what their website says:Candidates must demonstrate readiness for graduate study through some specific standard of achievement in a common entry examination (e.g., the subject GRE, GMAT), and/or an admissions test or an interview.Admission to a research Masters programme normally requires a good Honours degree or equivalent. Departments may also admit students with a good Bachelors degree with relevant research or working experience on a case-by-case basis, subject to approval by the Board of Graduate Studies (BGS).Admission into a Ph.D. programme requires a good Masters degree in a relevant discipline, or at least a Second Class Upper Honours degree or equivalent in a relevant disciplineGraduate Admissions [4]Good luck! Thanks for the A2A![1] Under the new MCAT system, you probably need 514 or so to be considered competitive. I had to retake it to achieve a 516 before daring to re-apply. Them's tough as balls. [2] Perhaps a little unfortunately, Singapore values the sciences greatly- NUS boasts very highly ranked medical schools, and science programmes, but much less so for arts.[3] And I say this with NTU and Beijing/Peking University as my alma maters. (NTU and NUS are sort-of rivals.)[4] Graduate Programmes by Research will hopefully be of some use, if indeed (like most- like me) you're trying for grad school. :)