 "Sometimes I wonder if men and women really suit each other. Perhaps they should live next door and just visit now and then." - Katharine HepburnSadly... singles probably aren't happier [1]. Sorry. Also, married people likewise "live how they want to"; they simply choose to be married. (I'm assuming most people weren't forced into marriage with some evil cartoon warlord here; even arranged marriages have an element of choice.)Anyway, Chris Rock had a funny little speech about this 'commitment dilemma' (NSFW): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Jokes aside, this realistically applies to men as well as women. Having fun is good and all, but who takes care of you when you're sick? Who do you tell everything to? Who waits up for you when you're not home at night? :/ Doesn't it ever get soul-crushingly lonely? And who will help raise your kids (should you ever have any)? What happens when you get old? The behavior that was carefree and breezy in our youth can turn stale and trite in middle age, alas.I think we are wired for relationships. We are social animals. We are all about relationships, romantic or otherwise, and the quality of them will determine the quality of our entire lives. Thanks for the A2A, Simon. :) It's great to have you back.[1] Marriage and Happiness: 18 Long-Term StudiesMarried People Are Happier People -- Science of UsAre married people happier than singles?In 2002, the two men calculated the monetary worth of marriage at $100,000 per year [source:Financial Times].Marriage also appears to promote better health. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found that husbands and wives are less likely to smoke or drink heavily, experience frequent headaches and suffer from psychological problems than people who aren't married [source: Stein, Song and Coady].Nevertheless, psychologists have pointed to marriage as the single most reliable happiness indicator. Across nations and ethnic groups, people report greater happiness from marriage than career, community or money [source: Seligman]. A 2005 survey from the Pew Research Center substantiates these assertions. Forty-three percent of married respondents reported that they were "very happy," compared to 24 percent of unmarried individuals [source: Pew Research Center]. Those results were consistent for all age groups and genders.