 There isn't such a thing as objective "wife material". All sorts of men have married all sorts of women, and continue to. Sometimes several times over.But it helps to know (in order of your comments):Why are all your dates in "fancy restaurants"?Why do you have sex specifically "4-5 dates later"?Why do you frame your predicament as "I got played so many times by guys who just want sex because of my appearance."? Why do you say "played"? What did these men offer that they reneged upon, and how?How are you certain it is your appearance?Why are the men you meet of such low integrity? (re: "I get offers from guys I once dated and after they married asking that we have an affair"- I'm assuming it's statistically implausible for all of them to be engaged in mutual open marriages)No offense- it sounds like you're following some kind of superficial script. This dating script seems to never deviate from: meet guy->have meals and conversations in expensive places->have sex after a specified number of dates->guy leaves- in your words. The truth seems to be that these men do not respect you, do not respect their wives, and do not respect themselves- otherwise they would not only call you up for sex when they feel like it. The other question is, why do you give your brain space to said men of poor moral character? I hope to give you the benefit of the doubt and assume you shut them down immediately, never to speak to them ever again.The other half of the equation is: are these men you're meeting even worth marrying? Why do you wish to marry? Do you want to be in the position of all those aforementioned wives whose husbands are propositioning other women? Or is marriage the goal for you- and the man in question is merely a placeholder? Until you can answer all these questions, I'm afraid there's no answer.While I respect Robert's effort, "straight guys in urban areas do not settle down because they don't think they have to" and that men are all about "the chase" is simply untrue. I've lived in big cities all my life and have been invited to more weddings than I can count (also because math is not my forte)- it's a reflection of the circles you're in, and what values they hold, as well as your culture. And while Jay puts the focus on your deficiencies, I agree it's sometimes difficult to navigate the perilous world of dating, especially in fast-moving urban areas. The truth is likely somewhere in between; it is a combination of factors, but the good news is you have influence over all of them. You can change your dating habits. You can find new circles of men. You can learn to spot cheaters, or at least cut them off. You can find enclaves of like-minded people with the power of the internet (or the power of the local YMCA). You can move, if all else fails. You can make yourself better. And the latter should be a lifelong task, with or without potential partners involved. As a start, I hope to recommend The Social Animal: The Hidden Sources of Love, Character, and Achievement: David Brooks: 9780812979374: Amazon.com: Books and Stumbling on Happiness. It helps us understand certain decision making tools we have, why they're flawed, and what you can do. Should be available in any decent library. Good luck out there!