 She's not forcing you, by your own comments.She is, however, trying to influence your behavior. I do think it's something of a mistake to think that putting on sweatpants, not wearing makeup, and tying up your hair makes you 'not pretty'. That's a popular Hollywood trope without much grounding in reality:A stock plot: an ugly duckling goes off in private, loses the glasses, takes down her hair, maybe gets a little makeup and some nicer clothes and finally returns as a swan. Another version of this would be "Miss Jones Syndrome", where a dowdy, bespectacled woman switches to contacts, shakes loose her hair, and is told by the unrequited object of her affections, "Why, Miss Jones, you are beautiful."This is mainly possible because most of the "ugly" women on TV or in the movies are beautiful actresses in bad clothes.Beautiful All Along - TV TropesWhat clothes, makeup, and all those accouterments do isn't to create prettiness, but merely to enhance what was already there. Otherwise, all beauty queens, models, starlets, and women who otherwise make a living off their looks can henceforth be unemployed. And too much of it will produce the opposite effect, or may be seen as 'trying too hard'. At 16, our brains are not fully developed yet [1], and sometimes we don't take into account the motivations behind certain actions. I don't think your mother is doing this out of any bad intentions; most parents want the very best for their kids. They just don't always set about it the best way- which is why I do think it's important to keep in mind why she's doing this whilst maintaining healthy boundaries. And there's even some evidence to show that parents' influence on their kids aren't as great as previously believed [2], which you may want to show her. It's ultimately your body and your life; and certainly your choice.[1] Teen Brains Are Not Fully DevelopedAt What Age Is The Brain Fully Developed?[2] Hastings, P.D., McShane, K.E., Parker, R., Ladha, F. (2007). Ready to make nice: Parental socialization of young sons and daughters prosocial behaviors with peers. Journal of Genetic Psychology, 168(2), 177-200.