 Studies have answered your question. Women do have fantasies of violence, including rape fantasies, and often suspect other women do (up to 30%), but they do not ever wish to really be treated violently. Love By Numbers and Decoding Love has more on that. Pubmed has a recent study here (albeit only of female undergraduates in a particular university):Results indicated that 62% of women have had a rape fantasy, which is somewhat higher than previous estimates. For women who have had rape fantasies, the median frequency of these fantasies was about 4 times per year, with 14% of participants reporting that they had rape fantasies at least once a week. In contrast to previous research, which suggested that rape fantasies were either entirely aversive or entirely erotic, rape fantasies were found to exist on an erotic-aversive continuum, with 9% completely aversive, 45% completely erotic, and 46% both erotic and aversive.The nature of women's rape fantasies: an analysis of prevalence, frequency, and contents.It is perhaps worthy of note that the vast majority of violent crime is committed by young men (see: The Age and Crime Relationship, median age 25; Patterns of Crime has it at a similar period). After all, we seldom see the headlines: Grandpa Shoots Up Schoolyard. If indeed the peak male physical attractiveness coincides with peak male violent behavior, it can be a clue as to why. However, partnering with actually violent men is a poor survival strategy. The women who picked these men as reproductive partners would likely have suffered reduced fitness, as well as children who grow up under the influence of this warped dynamic (assuming the man stays at all, or doesn't kill his offspring and partner). And indeed, seldom does fantasy translate to reality- a common young male fantasy is that of being the mayor of a town populated by nothing but attractive, nude, young, sexually permissive women:There is no doubt that sexual fantasies are interesting and exciting to contemplate, but living it is something quite different altogether. There is a saying that I will proceed to mangle- there are two ways to be unhappy- one by having none of our wishes fulfilled, the other by having all our wishes fulfilled.