 Yes, but they're not linked.This is a Non sequitur, and I'm afraid you need to stop eating nothing but ramen noodles. Please take a look at the back:There should be a label explaining that these are high in salt, carbs, and fat, with very little dietary fibre, vitamins, and so forth. For example, there are 13 essential vitamins you need for the body to work [1]. I'm sure you've heard of things like scurvy and rickets, and why they're awful- consider switching to say, rice, beans, fruit and fish. A healthy meal is not difficult to prepare, nor does it need to be expensive.And kindly note that you need about 30min of physical activity per day, with 150min of aerobic exercise per week [2]. Let me know if you need any hilarious exercise videos to sweat to.[1] Vitamins: MedlinePlus Medical EncyclopediaVitamin A helps form and maintain healthy teeth, bones, soft tissue, mucus membranes, and skin.Vitamin B6 is also called pyridoxine. Vitamin B6 helps form red blood cells and maintain brain function. This vitamin also plays an important role in the proteins that are part of many chemical reactions in the body. The more protein you eat the more pyridoxine your body requires.Vitamin B12, like the other B vitamins, is important for metabolism. It also helps form red blood cells and maintain the central nervous system.Vitamin C, also called ascorbic acid, is an antioxidant that promotes healthy teeth and gums. It helps the body absorb iron and maintain healthy tissue. It also promotes wound healing.Vitamin D is also known as the "sunshine vitamin," since it is made by the body after being in the sun. Ten to 15 minutes of sunshine three times a week is enough to produce the body's requirement of vitamin D for most people at most latitudes. People who do not live in sunny places may not make enough vitamin D. It is very hard to get enough vitamin D from food sources alone. Vitamin D helps the body absorb calcium. You need calcium for the normal development and maintenance of healthy teeth and bones. It also helps maintain proper blood levels of calcium and phosphorus.Vitamin E is an antioxidant also known as tocopherol. It helps the body form red blood cells and use vitamin K.Vitamin K is not listed among the essential vitamins, but without it blood would not stick together (coagulate). Some studies suggest that it is important for bone health.Biotin is essential for the metabolism of proteins and carbohydrates, and in the production of hormones and cholesterol.Niacin is a B vitamin that helps maintain healthy skin and nerves. It is also has cholesterol-lowering effects.Folate works with vitamin B12 to help form red blood cells. It is needed for the production of DNA, which controls tissue growth and cell function. Any woman who is pregnant should be sure to get enough folate. Low levels of folate are linked to birth defects such as spina bifida. Many foods are now fortified with folic acid.Pantothenic acid is essential for the metabolism of food. It also plays a role in the production of hormones and cholesterol.Riboflavin (vitamin B2) works with the other B vitamins. It is important for body growth and the production of red blood cells.Thiamine (vitamin B1) helps the body cells change carbohydrates into energy. Getting plenty of carbohydrates is very important during pregnancy and breast-feeding. It is also essential for heart function and healthy nerve cells.[2] Exercise: How much do I need every day? - Mayo ClinicThanks for the A2A, Viola!