 It sounds like you're two ships passing in the night, almost living separate lives at this point.I don't think it's selfish or controlling to kindly ask your partner to spend time with you. Neither does it make sense to declare oneself as such ("I'm not controlling")- this is not up to you to decide. Also, one thing that stood is: "my fiancee said that she doesn't want me to be caged"- it honestly comes off as an euphemism, since you're precisely asking her to make plans. It sounds more like "I don't want me to be caged"- which is why I hope you clarify with her directly. Nonetheless, it's a good sign you still spend an hour a night in conversation, despite your dissatisfaction with the quality of said time.As for advice, Chris Rock puts it this way: "The key to staying together is making sure you guys like each other and need each other." He also said a few other unmentionable things, which I've attached below. I'd add that if she doesn't enjoy spending time with you, or vice versa, it may be worth considering why you're in this relationship if you're unhappy. If it's truly because she's busy, it may be worth considering that this period will eventually pass.Either way, I hope this helps:How to Talk to Your Husband or Wife About RelationshipHow to Get Your Spouse to Talk to YouEmotional Abandonment: Shut out by your spousehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Ultimately, the tragedy of relationships is that it takes two to make it, but it takes only one to break it. If she truly has no desire to spend time with you or be with you, I'm afraid that's her choice. But if there's a fighting chance, here's something that may help (from link above)Here are some suggestions for re-establishing a loving connection with your spouse:Agree to talk. At some point you have to agree to talk about the problems that exist between you. If youre going to resolve issues, there needs to be a mutual commitment to listen to the other persons concerns and to work towards improving the situation. Dont corner your spouse with an unexpected lecture, but set a time and agree to start to work through your issues.Be prepared. Before you have the talk, take the time separately to think through the unresolved issues that youll be discussing. What are your concerns in the relationship? In what areas do you feel you need to improve? What are your expectations of your spouse? To put your thoughts down on paper may be best, but either way, be prepared to be open and honest with each other about the real issues between you. Be sure to take the time to really listen to what your spouse is saying. Give each other uninterrupted time to share your view on things.Be direct but gentle. Neither of you has anything to gain by holding back your true feelings. Remember: unresolved issues lie at the heart of emotional detachment. So lay all your cards out on the table by sharing your hurts clearly. Dont allow things to get out of hand. Be committed to talk through things sensibly. Take breaks to cool it if necessary but agree to continue. Ask each other the tough questions, and talk through the difficult issues that have been eating away at your relationship. Regardless of which partner initiated the wrong, you both need to work at resolving the problem.Begin to meet unmet needs. Often a person pulls back from the relationship because, in their mind, their needs are not being met. A healthy marriage demands that both partners actively work to discern the needs of their spouse, and work to meet those needs. Seek to understand your spouses needs and ask yourself how you can start to better express love by meeting these needs. Make your spouse and sorting things out your new priority.Deal with your own stuff. If I am feeling abandoned by my spouse, I need to ask myself a tough question: What have I done to drive my spouse away? Now it may not be only your responsibility. Nevertheless, you have to find out what you are responsible for and take ownership for your actions. Really listen to your spouse. Of course, there are things that your mate needs to deal with, and they may be withdrawing from you for selfish reasons, but that cant stop you from taking the steps that you know you need to take. Both parties must be prepared to make apologies and extend forgiveness as part of your recovery from the emotional detachment.Intentionally re-engage. If you are to re-establish your emotional connection, it wont happen by accident and it wont happen overnight. You need to agree to make your relationship a priority and spend some quality time together. Plan a few dates and put each other in your schedules. Its time to re-enter one anothers lives again.Act kindly. This may not be a revolutionary new idea, but it can have that kind of an effect on your marriage. You must act kindly toward your spouse. Small gestures of warmth, acts of kindness, and efforts to rekindle the romance between you will go a long way toward renewing your bond with one another. Do this from the heart with real commitment to make the necessary changes.Love unconditionally. Somebody has to break out of the negative cycle of eye-for an eye, poor treatment for poor treatment. You need to step out of the insult-for-insult cycle and respond differently. You cannot control your spouses behaviour, but you can control your own. Regardless of how your spouse responds, you must choose to treat them with love. This is not easy to do when your partner is not reciprocating, but it is what you vowed to do when you promised to love each other for better or for worse. And nothing breaks down emotional barriers like unconditional love.Thanks for the A2A, Anon, and best wishes. :)