 when the man got an offer, the woman was rejected 43 percent of the time. At the high-priced restaurants, women had 40 percent less chance of being interviewed and 50 percent less chance of receiving the job. Therefore, based on this study, it is correct to conclude discrimination in the same job may lead to gender wage discrimination. -Another experiment is the study of the effect of "blind" symphony orchestra auditions by Goldin and Rouse.[14] In this case, the gender of the candidate was not known by the election committee because the auditions were done behind a curtain. Thus, only the skills were considered. As a result, the number of women accepted increased after blind auditions from less than 5 percent in 1970 to 25 percent in 1996 in the top five symphony orchestras in the U.S. This study tests for discrimination directly. The finding implies there was gender discrimination against woman musicians before the adoption of the screen on identity. Darity and Mason [1998] summarize results of discriminatory behavior observed in other countries on the basis of "correspondence tests".[2] In this type of tests, the researchers design fabricated resumes that signal the ethnicity of the pseudo applicants via the names on the resumes and send these letters to the employers. However, the qualifications written in the resumes are comparable. In England, Afro-American, Indian or Pakistani names were not called back for the interviews but Anglo-Saxons were called.[15] In Australian audits, Greek or Vietnamese names had the same result; Anglo-Saxons were favored.[15] According to the experiment done in the University of Michigans study,[16] strikingly, even the skin shade and physical features of the individuals had negative effects the further the skin color and physical features were from white characteristics.From court casesThe plaintiffs were women or non-whites (St. Petersburg Times, 1997; Inter Press Service, 1996; The Chicago Tribune, 1997; The New York Times, 1993; the Christian Science Monitor, 1983; Los Angeles Times, 1996). Some examples are the following: In 1997, the allegations for the Publix Super Markets were gender biases in on the job training, promotion, tenure and layoff policies; wage discrimination; occupational segregation; hostile work environment (St. Petersburg Times, 1997, pp. 77). In 1996, allegations for Texaco were racially discriminatory hiring, promotion and salary policies (Inter Press Service, 1996; The Chicago Tribune, 1997, pp. 77). The six black workers, who were the plaintiffs, gave the taped racist comments of the white corporate officials as evidence (Inter Press Service, 1996; The Chicago Tribune, 1997). In 1983, the General Motors Corporation was sued both for gender and racial discrimination (the Christian Science Monitor, 1983). In 1993, the Shoney International was accused of racial bias in promotion, tenure, and layoff policies; wage discrimination; hostile work environment (The New York Times, 1993, pp. 77) . The victims were granted $105 million (The New York Times, 1993). In 1996, the plaintiffs of the Pitney Bowes, Inc. case were granted $11.1 million (Los Angeles Times, 1996).Employment discriminationFurthermore: there are, for example, illegal questions that can be asked- many of which feature questions on childbirth and family planning:Illegal Interview Questions and Female Applicants - FindLaw5 Job Interview Questions that Are Illegal to Ask | Monster.comAlso, there are definitely studies showing companies calling up certain people more than others, despite similar qualifications on dummy resumes, or assumptions made of certain applicants:Employers' Replies to Racial NamesUndercover job hunters reveal huge race bias in Britain's ... Discrimination in the Job Market in the United StatesU.S. Companies Often Assume Black Job Applicants Do DrugsAnd the hiring decision itself:Racial Bias in Hiring - The University of Chicago Booth ...Racial discrimination continues to play a part in hiring decisionsAnd said issues cropping up in the workplace itself, even after being hired:Racial Discrimination in the Workplace Page on nih.gov: The Sociology of Discrimination: Racial Discrimination in Employment, Housing, Credit, and Consumer Markets