 It sounds like you're two ships passing in the night, almost living separate lives at this point.I don't think it's selfish or controlling to kindly ask your partner to spend time with you. Neither does it make sense to declare oneself as such ("I'm not controlling")- this is not up to you to decide. Also, one thing that stood is: "my fiancee said that she doesn't want me to be caged"- it honestly comes off as an euphemism, since you're precisely asking her to make plans. It sounds more like "I don't want me to be caged"- which is why I hope you clarify with her directly. Nonetheless, it's a good sign you still spend an hour a night in conversation, despite your dissatisfaction with the quality of said time.As for advice, Chris Rock puts it this way: "The key to staying together is making sure you guys like each other and need each other." He also said a few other unmentionable things, which I've attached below. I'd add that if she doesn't enjoy spending time with you, or vice versa, it may be worth considering why you're in this relationship if you're unhappy. If it's truly because she's busy, it may be worth considering that this period will eventually pass.Either way, I hope this helps:How to Talk to Your Husband or Wife About RelationshipHow to Get Your Spouse to Talk to YouEmotional Abandonment: Shut out by your spousehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...Ultimately, the tragedy of relationships is that it takes two to make it, but it takes only one to break it. If she truly has no desire to spend time with you or be with you, I'm afraid that's her choice. But if there's a fighting chance, here's something that may help (from link above)Here are some suggestions for re-establishing a loving connection with your spouse:Agree to talk. At some point you have to agree to talk about the problems that exist between you. If youre going to resolve issues, there needs to be a mutual commitment to listen to the other persons concerns and to work towards improving the situation. Dont corner your spouse with an unexpected lecture, but set a time and agree to start to work through your issues.Be prepared. Before you have the talk, take the time separately to think through the unresolved issues that youll be discussing. What are your concerns in the relationship? In what areas do you feel you need to improve? What are your expectations of your spouse? To put your thoughts down on paper may be best, but either way, be prepared to be open and honest with each other about the real issues between you. Be sure to take the time to really listen to what your spouse is saying. Give each other uninterrupted time to share your view on things.Be direct but gentle. Neither of you has anything to gain by holding back your true feelings. Remember: unresolved issues lie at the heart of emotional detachment. So lay all