 Joshua EngelWell, for starters, given that the article is four years old, the question "Does the current impasse over the debt ceiling augur a constitutional collapse?" is obviously in retrospect "no". The problem you're talking about is not unique to Madisonian democracies. Any political system has to balance itself between efficiency and fairness. People have craved a benevolent dictator as a way out of that since Plato (see Plato's Argument for Rule by Philosopher Kings), but you'll notice that the benevolent dictator Plato is calling for is, uh, himself. Dictatorships aren't fair. Democracies aren't efficient. Any workable system is going to have some kind of mix of the two.The current (and continuing, as you can see from that four-year-old article) situation in the US has nothing to do, I believe, with the system of its checks and balances. Oh, I personally might tweak them to a different compromise, but fundamentally the idea is as sound as it's going to be. The problem in the US is social: a largish, fairly privileged minority has been fomented to be angry at everybody else. The combination of long-term presence in the power structure, and a relatively recent (within the past 20 years) willingness to leverage the rules to shut down the system entirely, has led to even more gridlock in the legislature than usual.The good news, and the open secret, is that the government generally functions fine without its legislature. The real work of government is done by its executive branch. The legislature exists to oversee and direct that branch. Without it, things don't get better, but the executive consists primarily of millions of long-term civil servants who know how to go about the real daily functioning of the government. Social security checks get written; parks get opened; bombs continue to be dropped.Oh, it gets messy every year during the one thing that the Congress is actually required to do, which is to legally authorize the executive branch money to pay for those things. That leads to a muddle, but thus far there have been enough adults in the legislature that it eventually gets done. As much as the noisy minority imagines that the country doesn't need the executive branch doing its job, a large majority has at least a dim grasp that many of those things really do actually matter to them. So there's never quite enough call to shut it down forever.It could reach that day at some point, but fundamentally that's about the people, not the system. It hits that point when enough people basically don't want to be in a country any more. The system falls apart... and then re-forms as a new country (or countries). Each of which will face exactly the same problems of trying to reach enough of a consensus to allow them to continue to live together and get on with the actual business of the nation, which has little to do with its governance. And they're going to end up with either a dictator they hope is benevolent (he won't be) or a different version of the same checks and balances. Because those are the only options.