 Joshua EngelHow crucial is communication to a software engineer? Absolutely critical. Your job as a programmer isn't to talk to computers. It's to translate between non-programmers and computers. And most of the time, with the other programmers who are working with you, and the management you share with them. A huge fraction of your job will be talking with other people. They tell you what to program and how. Without that, there is no job.As for a communications minor, though... it's probably not worth it, at least not for the reasons you mentions. The curriculum for a communications degree varies considerably between schools, but in many schools it's usually treated as being about mass communications: media, public relations, journalism, etc. That's not the kind of communication you have with bosses, coworkers, and clients. There may also be classes in more directly applicable areas: rhetoric, presentations, drawing, even brand management; you might be able to put together enough of these to constitute a minor. But the "communications" aspect of it would be at least partly lost.That's not to say that a communications minor is a bad idea. I strongly encourage programmers to learn about something else besides programming, since the actual programming is only part of the job. The more things you know aside from the programming, the greater the variety of fields you'll be useful in. You stand a chance of knowing what you're programming about, which is at least as important as the process of programming itself. Communications is as good a one as any: communications firms (and communications departments within other firms) hire programmers as well. If you're interested in communications, by all means, get a minor. But it's unlikely to help you in the kinds of communications that I mentioned in my first paragraph, which are absolutely critical. Those are learned by taking any kind of class which involves talking with people, listening to what they have to say, and presenting your ideas to them. History, literature, even music or theater would do you good in these areas. Anything that gets you comfortable with the idea of doing something other than huddling in front of a glowing screen eight (or twelve, or more) hours a day). That really is the "easy" part of the job.