 Joshua EngelIt's not a "dispute", per se. They didn't debate it, at least not in print. If they discussed it between themselves, it hasn't been recorded.Three things are well known despite that:* Tolkien explicitly condemned allegory* Narnia is an allegory* Tolkien didn't much like NarniaBut I wouldn't go so far as to say that Tolkien disliked Narnia because it was an allegory, at least not solely. Tolkien's problem was more general than that. Tolkien was a proud defender of myths in general, and fairy tales in particular. In the late 19th century, "fairy tale" took on a connotation of sweetness and light. Fairies are harmless and unthreatening. They're all girls wearing pink dresses.Tolkien's conception of Faerie, the "Perilous Realm", is much more dangerous. Tolkien used "fairy" and "Elf" interchangeably, based on older meanings of the term. It is a place you disappear into and reappear after decades, or centuries... or never. It is a fairy tale, but it is not a children's story. It has much more in common with Grimm's grim fairy tales, the kind where people are mutilated and tortured.Narnia is also an allegory, and Tolkien said, I cordially dislike allegory in all its manifestations, and always have done so since I grew old and wary enough to detect its presence. I much prefer history  true or feigned with its varied applicability to the thought and experience of readers. I think that many confuse applicability with allegory, but the one resides in the freedom of the reader, and the other in the purposed domination of the author. The problem is that allegory isn't a story to itself. It's really just a different story, one you open up with a key, but what you get is just the story you already had. Narnia is an allegory, but then, so is Leaf by Niggle, a short story by Tolkien. It's about an artist who goes on a journey through what is really obviously purgatory and, eventually, heaven. I'd say it's even more obviously allegorical than the allegorical elements of Narnia. So, for that matter, is the Scouring of the Shire in The Lord of the Rings; Tolkien denied that it was an allegory about socialism but it's really hard to avoid the conclusion. The Lord of the Rings as a whole is clearly not an allegory, but the line between "applicability" and "allegory" can be hazy.So I don't think it was really a dispute. Tolkien had a complex relationship to allegory, and I imagine he discussed it vigorously with his friend Lewis. There, too, the line might be kind of hazy.