 Joshua EngelHumans had negligible impact on oxygen levels. Oxygen actually has a very short lifetime in the atmosphere; if plants stopped producing it, it would all be turned into CO2 very quickly, even in the absence of organic processes. Organic processes do it even more quickly, but it's basically a function of biomass, and humans are only a tiny fraction of the biomass of the planet. Even burning up fossil fuels has had only a trivial effect. Oxygen constitutes about 20% of the atmosphere, and humans can't substantially affect that. Oxygen levels have been roughly constant for human history.Humans have *increased* CO2, by a substantial amount. CO2 is a far smaller part of the atmosphere, but it's stable: once produced, it tends to stick around for a very, very long time. And the carbon that is being put into the atmosphere is coming from deposits that had been buried under ground for many millions of years.Agriculture has increased the amount of CO2 produced:* The land on which food can be grown would be generally be growing other green plants. Water diverted to irrigate barren areas merely shifts it, not increases it* Agriculture does not sequester carbon for long, since the food is harvested and the wastes composted or burned. Trees grown on the same land would sequester carbon for centuries. * The biomass of agriculture is negligible compared to the total plant biomass of the planet. The largest producer of oxygen is algae in the ocean, responsible for up to 80% of it.* Modern farming practices burn up vast quantities of fossil fuels in their production, much of it in the production of energy-intensive nitrogen fertilizers. * A lot of agriculture produces animals, rather than plants. Those animals produce far fewer calories per unit of energy input.The total amount of CO2 in the atmosphere is very small, about 400 parts per million, compared to 200,000 parts per million for oxygen. But because it was so small, it's far easier for humans to make a measurable impact; for the past half-million years CO2 has been in the range of about 150 to 300 ppm. Humans have added about 100 ppm of CO2 to the atmosphere, enough to have a measurable effect on overall temperature. And since that CO2 tends to remain stable and accumulates, so the effect will last for many decades to come unless CO2 production falls. As it is, CO2 production is expected to rise, and added to the CO2 already in the atmosphere, it could double or more from here.