 Joshua EngelThere are some excellent answers already, but I want to focus on one particular element:I do not understand how you can attach truthyness to an "if ... then .. " statement as a wholeHere is an if-then statement:If it is dark, then you cannot see.That feels like a true statement, yes? You certainly wouldn't say that it was false. It also makes sense to have false if-then statements:If the light is green, then it is safe to enter the intersection.That's false. A green light might make it legal to enter the intersection, but there might be drunk drivers, pedestrians, people left over from the last light cycle, etc. It's an if-then sentence, but you wouldn't call it true. In fact, it's reasonable to call it "false".That's the intuition here. Truth values attach to propositions. Propositions can be simple ("grass is green"), or compound ("grass is red or the sky is blue"). Compound propositions get their truth value from combining the simple propositions.If-then can be kind of unclear, and to be honest the notion that "if A then B" is equivalent to "B is true, or A is not true" hardly seems to match well to our intuition for if-then statement in natural language. They do work, in a restricted domain, but really any time "not" figures into a sentence, the semantics get wonky. There's a reason why "it's not unsafe" means something different from "it's safe". Negation is semantically trickier than standard first order logic makes it out to be. The only thing FOL has going for it is its simplicity, not its fidelity to human speech. And if-then statements are similarly caught up in semantic ugliness.That makes it really hard to interpret a statement that "holds vacuously". "If the sky is green then ABBA is the greatest band of all time" is true in the sense that you can accept that proposition: whatever your opinion about ABBA, you know that the sky isn't green, so the sentence might as well be true. That conflicts with our intuitions about Occam's Razor, where we try to shy away from adding clutter to our mental picture. It's another case where first order logic is leading us astray compared to our intended semantics, where we do tend to assume that statements that aren't demonstrably true are false.So generally, when something holds vacuously, it's best to back up and figure out how you go there. The rules of logic tell you that you can proceed as if the sentence were true, but most of the time, that doesn't actually take you anywhere interesting or valuable. (That's why they call it "vacuous".) As logic, it holds. As an argument, it's telling you that even if your conclusion is true, you probably haven't really justified it.