 Gayle Laakmann McDowellHe should regret it. He should not have rescinded the offer publicly. In fact, nearly every part of this was wrong: objecting so strongly to the candidate's actions, actually rescinding the offer, and doing so publicly.1. He should not have rescinded the offer publicly.This is a private matter between the company and the candidate. It's not okay to disclose this publicly.2. He should not have actually rescinded the offer, when he could have just politely discouraged the candidate from joining.Instead of actually rescinding the offer, he could have gotten on the phone with the candidate and said something like this:I saw your post and you're still welcome here. However, I think you should join Uber instead. You want name brand, and they have that more so than us. The money differences are irrelevant in the long run. Don't make the decision based on that. It's so much more important to go somewhere you are excited to be. And if that's Uber, go for it. You can't go wrong.And so on.It probably would have worked. The candidate probably would have taken the Uber job. The CEO accomplishes the same thing, but now looks super mature, professional, and empathic. Right now, he basically looks like the opposite.If I'm wrong and the candidate joined Zenefits anyway, then isn't that what he wants?3. He should not have been so offended by the candidate's actions.So the candidate sees name brand as a "plus." Um, so? Who doesn't see that as a plus?If he thinks that most other candidates don't want the same thing, he's incredibly naive. This is especially true when hiring out of college. Of course they're going to think about long-term career options.I really don't see what's so offensive in this candidate's actions. He posted an anonymous question looking for career advice. Who cares? Nothing he said was even particularly negative about Zenefits.The Zenefits CEO made himself look like a jerk. I knew nothing about the Zenefits CEO prior to this, and I really don't think it's fair to generalize from a single action. But other people will. He looks naive: he's unaware that name brand is a factor in most people's decisions. There was nothing unique in this candidate's thought process.He looks immature and arrogant: he buys wholeheartedly into his mission, so he expects everyone else to -- even people who haven't joined.He looks like he's dodging responsibility: rather than accepting that he/his company might not have adequately sold the vision, he blames the candidate for not buying in sufficiently.He looks unempathetic: he's unable to look at it from the candidate's perspective and see that the candidate is being reasonable.He looks callous: revoking the offer, and doing so publicly, was mean.He looks unprofessional: there were much better ways of handling this situation, as I've explained here. Now, I'm not saying he is these things. I don't know much about him and I'm not going to generalize off of one incident. Maybe this is a weak point for him, or maybe this just caught him on a bad day. He's human too, and even CEOs of A-list startups make mistakes.But to people quicker to judge, he looks like all of these things. That's why this was such a stupid move.Also, can I just say... when it's you vs the Uber CEO, and you are the one looking like a jerk, you know you screwed up.