 Gayle Laakmann McDowellSome celebrities are more "mockable" than others, and their costumes reflect this. This doesn't mean that the celebrity deserves the mocking; it just means that they have something that others like to mock.A costume of George W. Bush is generally there to mock him. People aren't dressing as him out of respect and admiration. They're trying to be funny. The costume-wearer will likely be trotting out some of his dumbest quotes.By contrast, a costume of Michael Phelps is not necessarily a "funny" costume. It certainly can be (particularly if the person pretends to be smoking pot), but it's very often not.Which camp does Caitlyn Jenner fall into? Will her costume be worn out of respect (or just to make a cool costume) or for the lolz? There are certainly a great number of people who respect her, either for her bravery in coming out or for her athletic accomplishments (or both). There are lots of others who think she's disgusting and a sin against nature, or something like that. And there are even more who don't really think much about her as a person, so much as a joke.I would strongly suspect that those wearing her costume will be doing it because it's funny. What's so funny (to them)? That she's transgender. That's what people are, in most or all cases, making fun of when they dress as her. Making fun of someone who is transgender for being transgender is offensive and hurtful to many people. And from the looks of it, the people who are selling the costume know this. They picked a man to wear the costume -- and a particularly "macho" man. HILARIOUS, right?That's not to say that a custom of a transgender celebrity couldn't exist respectfully -- or even non-offensively but still not "respectful". If we lived in a time where being transgender wasn't a "funny" thing, but just a thing, then absolutely (and we probably will live in this time). Or, if there were a transgender celebrity who just happened to be accepted for this but mocked for something else, then you could have a "funny" costume of him/her that wasn't inherently transphobic.Unfortunately, Caitlyn Jenner doesn't fall into this category. She's most strongly associated with being transgender, and she's being mocked for this. That's what's inspiring this costume. Therefore, it is innately offensive.