 Gayle Laakmann McDowellYour mom might not be going about it the right way (or maybe she is--we don't really know), but either way she has a point. I would encourage you to not brush it off entirely.Whether you like it or not, attractiveness makes your life easier. You'll make friends easier. People will think you're smarter. Teachers and strangers will like you more. You'll get treated better.These aren't just little things about how people see you. These are very real. Your friendships matter. Your grades matter. Your career matters. All of things come a bit easier when you're attractive and know how to put yourself together well.You're writing off caring about your appearance as superficial, but... is all this superficial? Having friends? Grades? Career? Certainly many people go to excess here and care too much about their appearance. People can also care too much about their grades or too much about making friends. The fact that some people over focus isn't a reason to not care.What concerns me with your attitude is that you're just saying it doesn't matter to you, and I'm not sure you've thought through the implications of this. Additionally, given your age, there could be other factors at play. Perhaps you say you don't care about your appearance because you think it's hopeless. Or perhaps you think it takes too much effort. Or perhaps you don't want to enter into competition with your sisters. Or perhaps you want to feel superior over others and call them superficial.As I said, there's a lot of value in knowing how to put yourself together well. I would encourage you to find a way that works for you. Perhaps drop the sweatpants for stretchy skinny jeans (which can be much more comfortable, surprisingly, than normal jeans). Find some comfortable but fitted tops. Find makeup that works for your skin, even if you don't wear it everyday.If you do decide that you really don't want to care about your appearance, recognize what you're giving up. You're giving up something that will help you in many parts of life. It's okay to not leverage that advantage, just like it's okay to not leverage your network for a job search and it's okay to not work hard in school. You don't always have to take the "smart" path.Just make your decisions for you (not to spite anyone else) and with a full understanding of the consequences.