 Gayle Laakmann McDowellI think what's disrespectful is to presume, with zero knowledge of the parent or child or situation, that we know better than them. Here's the entirety of our knowledge:Someone had a bumper sticker that said "Please be patient, autistic child on board."That's it. We presume that this was on a car. We presume that this was the parent. We presume that the kid doesn't want their condition known. We presume that the kid is able to even understand what this bumper sticker says. We presume that this was done with no reasonable justification. We presume that we know better although we know nearly nothing.Try this: When you see a parent doing something that you don't get, ask yourself, "Is there a plausible explanation for this behavior?"For pretty much anyone with kids, someone could look at a parenting choice and say that it's a bad one. Usually, when you know the situation though, it seems a lot more reasonable.Two examples from my personal experience:For much of my child's life, I've carefully tracked his calories. I don't give him food just because he asks for it. I ration food that many parents would consider fairly healthy (eggs, whole wheat bread, milk, fruit, etc).The parenting books say that you should let your kid eat whenever they're hungry and that those are healthy choices. Kids know how to control their appetite. Yes, that's true in most situations. Lots of people have told me that I don't need to worry so much about what my kid eats.But my kid will overeat into obesity and those foods, while healthy in many respects, are very high in calories.I have a friend who really pushes her kid to eat. She's practically force-feeding her kid. That's a big no-no in the parenting books. But her kid will, if left to his own, eat so little that he'll be unhealthily skinny and deprived of sufficient calories to grow healthy.We don't know what is going on in this situation, but I can certainly imagine situations where it'd be better to disclose this child's autism publicly than to not. Perhaps it makes other people more tolerant of the child's situation and less likely to do things that upset the child (honking, yelling, etc). Perhaps this parent tends to have trouble getting the child in and out of parking spots. Perhaps this is a vehicle used to transport severely autistic children and, again, they got a lot of hassle before putting this on.Remember that when you ask if a parent should do something, the question is about that parent, not all or even most parents. Most parents shouldn't ration food, but we should. Most parents shouldn't force-feed their kids, but my friend should. Most parents shouldn't use such a bumper sticker, but this parent -- if it even is a parent -- quite possibly should. The parent did this for a reason, remember. Why assume they're wrong when we know absolutely nothing?Give people the benefit of the doubt. Don't be so judgmental about other people's choices.