 Gayle Laakmann McDowellThat's an interesting question.First, I'm not so sure that it's true that most adults are unvaccinated. Vaccination isn't a binary thing. An adult might have some shots but not all. By contrast, a kid whose parents won't vaccinate on principle are likely to have no vaccinations. The adult, therefore, is a bit less of a risk.Second, even if most adults overall are behind on shots, that doesn't mean the adults you know are that behind. The adults I know tend to be well-educated and have good access to healthcare. They're more likely to have had their shots -- but they still might be refusing the shots for their [perfectly healthy] children, under a mistaken belief that these vaccines are too much for typical child's immune system to handle. The adult, therefore, is a bit less of a risk.Third, an adult with insufficient immunity might still have some immunity left. A child with insufficient immunity was probably never immunized at all, and thus has no immunity. The adult, therefore, is a bit less of a risk.Fourth, kids have naturally weaker immune systems. They don't have the experience fighting off diseases that adults do. If a kid and an adult were both exposed to the same disease, the kid would be more likely to get sick. The adult, therefore, is a bit less of a risk.Fifth, kids are little Petrie dishes of diseases. They roll around in dirt. They lick tables and other kids' toys. They touch sticky things just because they're lying on the ground. They'll pick up anyone's drink and drink from it, just because it's there. They don't have a good sense for "eww, gross!" (they might think plenty of things are gross, but it's more likely to be broccoli than the freshly chewed gum on the bench). And they're around other kids who are doing the same things. Kids are actually more likely to be exposed to diseases. Adults don't generally do this kind of thing. The adult, therefore, is a bit less of a risk.So you see, there are a number of rational reasons to be more concerned about a not-fully-vaccinated child than a not-fully-vaccinated adult.It's also worth noting that vaccines are not 100% effective. Your vaccinated child also poses a health risk to the not-fully-vaccinated child, more so than your child does to the not-fully-vaccinated adult. Many people dismiss this under the rationale that they chose to not get vaccinated. But remember: the parent chose that, not the child. And even unvaccinated adults don't deserve to die.That said, although the unvaccinated child is more risky than the unvaccinated adult, I suspect there's a good amount of "we blame because we can." A parent who doesn't vaccinate their child (other than for rare medical reasons) is willfully introducing a health risk to their child and other children, without their consent. Yes, the risk is small when it's just isolated incidents of unvaccinated children, but it's a stupid risk to take anyway. It also becomes quite a major risk when a larger percent of the population is unvaccinated. People who don't vaccinate their children are an easy group to hate, judge, and fear. So while unvaccinated children are riskier than unvaccinated adults, some of the "stay away from them" mentality is probably motivated by the aforementioned inclination to hate, judge and fear them.