 The Importance of GradesGrades are really important in Singapore.You need good grades to get into the school that you want, to get a scholarship to study abroad and to get into the university and course of study of your choice.On top of it, many employers look at your grades and course of study when hiring (even for jobs unrelated to the field of study - Engineering for example is a desired degree even for non-engineering jobs). "Good honours" is a common line in job ads (while tuition at the university level is rare, tuition at lower levels gives you a boost which helps you get into the course of your choice, and arguably bolsters your foundations so you can do well later). And if you apply for a Government job, you will be asked to list your O and A level results (exams that one typically takes at the tender ages of 16 and 18 respectively).Let us not underestimate the role that parental bragging plays. Parents love to compare their children's grades, schools and courses of study, and they want their children to be doing better than Auntie Lee's (i.e. their friend's or relative's kids).All this is partly due to the Confucian paradigm, which is shared by other countries with East Asian populations (Singapore has ethnic Chinese as 75% of the population, so it counts). So South Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan and China have tuition cultures too ().You don't have to be good...Perhaps the key here is that grades are all bell-curved (presumably to prevent grade inflation, and/or to segregate cohorts regardless of overall cohort quality), so for example only 20% of a cohort can get an A. In other words, even if you get 99/100 on an exam, if everyone else gets 100/100, you won't get an A. Education is a positional good, in the form of grades.Singaporeans spend so much money on tuition, then, because you don't have to be good - just better than everyone else. So it's an eternal arms race where you're forever trying to do better than the rest. This is Keeping up with the Joneses - for Singaporean children.Positive FeedbackThe pervasiveness of tuition has created a positive feedback loop. Whereas previously tuition was more common in the better schools, it now seems students everywhere go for it. So we now have teachers outsourcing work to tuition teachers or agencies.One case was reported by the Straits Times, the National Daily (The Straits Times Blogs):barely two weeks after the boy entered Primary One, Miss L received a phone call from his Chinese teacher.Of the 30 students in her class, the teacher said, 28 already knew Hanyu Pinyin (the romanisation system for Mandarin), even though she was only supposed to be teaching it in the months ahead. Miss L's son was one of the two that didn't.The teacher said she couldn't hold 28 kids back for the sake of two.Miss L promptly bundled her son off to an intensive Hanyu Pinyin class that cramped 6 months' worth of curriculum into 8 sessions.The best part, my old classmates and I learnt, was that this took place not in an elite school, but in a neighbourhood school, somewhere in Tampines.For context, students in Primary One are aged 7 years old. So in the year of their entry into formal schooling, 93% of a class in a neighbourhood school (a colloquial term for not-so-good schools) were going for Mandarin tuition.This outsourcing of work to tuition agencies is also because of the "Teach Less, Learn More" policy (meant to reduce pressure on students, reduce rote learning and explore more innovative ways of learning). As one teacher comments,'Teach Less Learn More' but do it in less time and yet get students to ace national examinations - that becomes a real challenge for many educators.(National Institute of Education (NIE), Singapore)Unsurprisingly, one easy way to do this is to let private tutors do the job.Root Causes?One might ask why this phenomenon of tuition has gotten worse.I went through the formal education school in the 90s, and things weren't quite as bad. Yet it seems nowadays everyone goes for tuition, and you see private education/tuition