 agencies everywhere nowadays (in the past it tended to take the form of one-to-one tutoring).I would finger two factors: immigration and harder exams.ImmigrationIn recent years we have had more and more immigration in Singapore. Yes, almost everyone complains about immigration nowadays, but it is plausible that it has effects even on the young.Immigration is not just limited to the working population. Students from all over Asia now study in Singaporean schools - not just the good schools but also the not-so-good ones.Foreign students are mostly very hard-working. After all they have come from a foreign country (and since they come from Asia, many are from poor backgrounds) and so make the most of their chances and study really hard. Since they typically have no family in Singapore and don't have many friends, they spend a lot of time studying. Because their parents are not here (and their parents wouldn't have the Singaporean kiasu [i.e. fear of losing out] mentality anyway) they also don't go for piano, speech and drama or what-have-you classes and thus have more time to study.Since we have the bell curve in effect, local students must thus work harder to keep up. In other words, they have to run faster to stay in the same place (i.e. the Red Queen hypothesis).Let's look at some numbers.In 2012, there were 51,000 foreign students in government-run schools and institutions, including the polytechnics and universities (Foreign student numbers drop sharply after climbing steadily). In 2013, there were 473,375 students in Primary, Secondary and Mixed Level schools and Junior College/Centralised Institute (Page on moe.gov.sg), 26,288 students in the Institute of Technical Education (ITE), 3,290 in Lasalle and NAFA, 79,970 in the Polytechnics and 59,748 in the Universities.So about 8% of students in government-run schools and institutions were foreign students. While not that high, this is significant enough to impact the dynamics of the education system, not least due to the trickle down effect (for example a student who might have gotten an A without foreign students now gets a B, one who might have gotten a B now gets a C and so on).Harder ExamsSchool in Singapore has become harder over the years.In the past, parents used to help their children with their schoolwork at the primary level, but now primary school students must answer exam questions that stump most adults (Parents complaining about difficult PSLE maths paper, WOW PSLE MATHS QUESTION SO HARD).Naturally, parents who are unable to help (i.e. most of them) pass the job over to tuition.Ironically, this is probably partly due to the "Teach Less, Learn More" and similar policies. Whereas in the past there was an emphasis on rote learning, the reduced emphasis on it means now other ways must be found of assessing students.Normally this would lead to less stress, but because students (and parents) want to ace the modified exams, they go to private education to learn techniques to ace them that don't just rely on memorisation.A Way Out?This is the bit where I say something clever and/or optimistic to make you feel good.Unfortunately, the problem is so entrenched that I can't see a way out.Even our eminent Ministers don't see a way out, with former Education Minister Ng Eng Hen proclaiming that "We're not as bad as the Koreans" and "It's innate in our Asian culture" (Tuition culture here not as bad as elsewhere, Hansard: Page on parl.gov.sg), in response to concerns about tuition culture.So between the system existing as it is, Confucian culture, kiasuism and a national ideology of meritocracy (where school grades are seen as a measure of merit and worth, and are currency that entitles one to a good life), there isn't any way out except to not have children, to have children overseas or to have children but be contented that they may not be the human resources that Singapore wants them to be (in other words, they may fail at the socially-important metrics like grades in school, but you can look at broader measures of success).